




5 from 3 votes

Basic Moroccan M'qualli Recipe for Sweet Dishes

How to make a basic sweet Moroccan M'qualli for dishes that will be paired with with sweet toppings or stewed fruits. It  uses a set of aromatics based on a precise codification.Your choice of chicken, lamb or beef will define your cooking time. Apart from that, the base m'qualli recipe for sweet dishes will remain the same

Prep Time10 minutes minsCook Time1 hour hrTotal Time1 hour hr 10 minutes mins

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6
Calories: 303kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients3.3 lbs large pieces of lamb, calf or beef meat on the bone or chicken cut into 6 pieces1/4 cup olive and vegetable oil, mixed 50/501 medium-size yellow or Spanish onion, finely chopped1 tsp  smen1 tsp ground turmeric1  tsp ground ginger1 pinch saffron threads3/4 tsp salt  or to taste1/2 tsp ground white and black pepperIngredients for cooking1 clove of garlic, grated or chopped (optional)1 cinnamon stick 1/2 tsp ground turmeric1/2 tsp salt  to taste, beware this is not meant to be a salty dish1 tsp ground ginger1 small bouquet of of coriander (cilantro), optional1 tbsp clear honey  or sugarOptional1/2 tsp ground cinnamon1 tsp  Ras el Hanout US Customary - Metric
InstructionsMarinating Make the chicken or meat marinade:  In a small glass, top the saffron threads with 1/4 cup of hot water and set aside for about 10 minutes.  Stir in salt, turmeric, ginger pepper and smen.Transfer the marinade to a large bowl and add the meat or chicken. Coat each piece with the marinade, cover and leave for a minimum of 1 hour or overnight.Cooking Transfer the meat and marinade liquid to a tagine or deep pot with a heavy bottom. Add the chopped onion and 1/4 cup of water. Bring to a simmer for 10 to 15 minutes over medium heat while turning the meat a few times. You may cover the pot during this step and uncover it to stir.When the water seems to have mostly evaporated and the meat has browned on all sides, add the rest of the ingredients except for the honey.If cooking meat, add enough water to fully cover the ingredients.. If cooking chicken, add only enough water to cover 2/3 of the ingredients.Cover and let simmer until the meat or chicken is cooked through and has become tender to the touch. The liquid should have greatly reduced by now. Add the honey and stir.The red meat might require more water as it cooks, especially if you are not using a pressure cooker, so check liquids regularly. Top up the water if needed in order to avoid burning or a sticky bottom.If the meat or chicken has cooked and you are left with a good amount of sauce, remove it and cover while you reduce the sauce (marqa). Return the meat or chicken to the pot too reheat just before serving.ServingIn the case of sweet toppings cooked on the side, plate the meat or chicken first on the serving dish (leave in a tagine if that was your cooking vessel) and cover  with the thick sauce. Finish by garnishing with the caramelized fruits or any topping you have in the recipe. You might also sprinkle the dish with toasted sesame seeds or crushed fried or baked almonds.Always serve warm or hot.
Notes
The flavors of m'qualli dishes rely on the spices and the slow cooking method. Marinating ahead of time is key to their success but if you haven't done that, making them one day ahead and heating them the next day compensates for it as they will have time to rest and suck in all the goodness from the cooking sauce.
Note that this version of m'qualli, which is intended to be paired with fruit or a sweet topping, does not use much onion, unlike the iconic lemony version of m'qualli with daghmira.
If using chicken, you can discard the skin, especially if you plan to cook it jointed. It should be brined and cleaned before being used in Moroccan recipes.

 

Calories: 303kcal | Carbohydrates: 6g | Protein: 32g | Fat: 15g | Saturated Fat: 3g | Cholesterol: 60mg | Sodium: 586mg | Potassium: 615mg | Sugar: 3g | Vitamin A: 20IU | Vitamin C: 1.5mg | Calcium: 44mg | Iron: 4mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!