




4.96 from 23 votes

Moroccan Batbout Recipe - Mkhamer or Toghrift or Matlou'

Soft, chewy and perfect for sandwich fillers of all kinds, batbout is Morocco's fabulous version of a stove top pita bread or pocket bread. Depending on region or family, it might also be called mkhamer, toghrift or matlou'.Batbout traditionally includes durum flour or fine semolina; it's really an absolute must as the bread simply doesn't come as nice without. 

Prep Time20 minutes minsCook Time10 minutes minsResting & Rising1 hour hr 15 minutes minsTotal Time2 hours hrs

Course: Bread, BreakfastCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 20 batbout (4" or 10 cm)
Calories: 178kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
EquipmentRolling PinDouble griddle
Ingredients1 tbsp dry yeast2 tbsp sugar3 cups white flour, preferably bread flour or high-gluten2 cups durum flour or fine semolina1 cup whole wheat flour2 tsp salt3 tbsp olive oil or vegetable oil2 cups warm water,  approx.US Customary - Metric
InstructionsMix the yeast with a teaspoon of the sugar in a little warm water; set aside until foamy.Combine the flours, remaining sugar and salt. Add the oil, water and the yeast mixture.Stir to bring the dough together, then knead by hand on a floured surface, or with a mixer and dough hook, until smooth and supple, but not sticky. Add flour or water in small increments as needed to make a soft, manageable dough.Shape portions of the dough into smooth balls about the size of plums. Arrange the balls on a lightly floured surface with at least an inch between balls. Cover with a towel and leave the dough to rest for 10 to 15 minutes.When the dough has rested, dust your work surface with flour or fine semolina and roll each ball out into a thin round about 1/8" (0.3 cm) thick. Place on a cotton sheet or towel and cover. Leave to rise for an hour or a little longer, until light and puffy.Heat a large pan or griddle over medium heat for several minutes until very hot. Carefully transfer the batbout in batches to the pan. Gently turn the batbout as soon as set (after about 10 to 15 seconds) before air bubble being to appear on the surface.Continue cooking the batbout, turning gently several more times, until they have puffed with air and are browned on both sides.Transfer the cooked batbout to a rack or towel-lined basket to cool. Store completely cooled batbout in the freezer. 
Notes
You can safely eliminate white flour and use a mix of only durum flour and wheat flour. Or, you can replace some of the white flour with additional wheat flour. But, avoid using predominantly white flour or your end result might be gummy.
Make sure to fully preheat your griddle or frying pan. I leave my double griddle to heat up for a full five minutes before cooking the batbout. You can slightly lower the heat after you start cooking if you feel the batbout are browning too quickly.
It's important to handle the batbout gently while transferring to the pan and while cooking. Rough handling can deflate the risen dough or cause cracks which won't allow the batbout to fill with air.
When turning puffed batbout in the pan, or when transferring cooked batbout to a rack, be careful of burns which can occur when hot steam escapes from a crack.
On very cold days or in a cold kitchen, you may need to allow more time for the batbout to rise. Conversely, on very hot days or in hot, dry climates, the batbout can not only rise too quickly, but develop a dry exterior on the dough that's prone to cracking. I reduce the yeast to two teaspoons in warm weather to help avoid that.
If you roll batbout on the thick side, they may not puff up when cooked. In that case, you can gently pry or slice them open to create a pocket for fillings.
Instead of shaping balls, some cooks like to roll out the dough and cut out rounds with a glass or other biscuit cutter. The scraps can get gathered and kneaded together, then covered and left to rest for 10 to 15 minutes to roll out again. 
I reserve a heavy cotton sheet for making batbout; it fully covers my kitchen table and easily folds over the batbout to cover them while they rise. 

 

Calories: 178kcal | Carbohydrates: 33g | Protein: 5g | Fat: 2g | Sodium: 235mg | Potassium: 130mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 1g | Calcium: 12mg | Iron: 1.8mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!