




4.78 from 22 votes

Moroccan Semolina Pancakes - Beghrir or Baghrir

Spongy, light and delicious, these Moroccan semolina pancakes are best dipped in honey or syrup, or spread with jam. They're easy to make using conventional or traditional Moroccan measures. For the latter, use a drinking glass (about 12 oz.) as your measure. You can use all semolina or durum flour instead of the mix suggested below. (Just replace the white flour with an equal amount of the semolina or durum.) Be sure to read through the recipe notes for tips on getting good results.

Prep Time5 minutes minsCook Time20 minutes minsResting Time15 minutes minsTotal Time40 minutes mins

Course: Breakfast, Tea TimeCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 16 5" (12 cm) beghrir
Calories: 81kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
IngredientsUS Conventional Measures1 1/2 cups fine semolina or durum flour3/4 cup all-purpose flour1 tbsp dry yeast2 tsp baking powder1 tsp sugar1 tsp salt3 cups + 2 tbsp lukewarm waterTraditional Moroccan Measures2 glasses (to the brim) lukewarm water1 level glass fine semolina or durum flour1/2 glass all-purpose flour1 tbsp dry yeast2 tsp baking powder1 tsp sugar1 tsp saltUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsUse a blender or food processor to combine all ingredients. Blend on medium to high speed for a solid minute to yield a smooth, creamy batter. If you notice anything sticking to the pitcher or bowl, interrupt the blending to scrape down the sides.Transfer the batter to a bowl and cover with plastic wrap. Leave to rest for about 10 to 15 minutes, or until the batter appears light and foamy with lots of tiny bubbles.Heat a nonstick crepe pan over medium heat. When hot, stir the beghrir batter with a ladle, then slowly pour some batter into the center of the pan, allowing it to spread outward into a circle on its own. (Don't swirl the pan as you would for a crepe.)Cook the pancake without turning until set with no wet spots, about one to two minutes. (You can test the pancake by touching it lightly; it should feel spongy and no batter should stick to your finger.) Transfer it to a clean towel to cool.Repeat with the remaining batter, adjusting the heat if necessary so that the bottoms of the pancakes don't become overly brown. Be sure to cool the beghrir in a single layer before stacking them, otherwise they'll stick. Serve beghrir dipped in syrup made from melted butter and honey, or serve with toppings and spreads on the side. 
Notes
Leftover plain beghrir will keep for two days at room temperature when wrapped in plastic. Dipped pancakes should be kept in the fridge. Or, you can freeze plain beghrir for up to two or three months; in that case, be sure to place a small square of plastic wrap between each pancake to avoid sticking.
The consistency of the batter is critical to getting good results; it should be very similar to cream or crepe batter. Measure ingredients precisely and you should be fine.
However, if the bubbles still don't form properly, it could be because your batter is slightly thick; try thinning it with a tablespoon or two of water, allowing a few extra minutes for the batter to rest before attempting another pancake.
If you're not getting good results with the pan you're using, try another one. Know that all pans are not equal. Once I bought three tiny crepe pans to use for making beghrir. Two worked beautifully while the third yielded gummy pancakes with too-few holes on top.
Clearly then, a good crepe pan or small non-stick skillet is important to the process. Most Moroccans insist that a pan should be dedicated to the sole purpose of making beghrir. Normally you shouldn't need to oil the pan, but you can use a lightly oiled paper towel to clean off any residue between making pancakes.
For faster cooking, particularly if you'll be making a double batch, use two or three pans at the same time.
Beghrir can be made any size you like. If your pans are small enough, they can be your guide.

 

Serving: 1beghrir | Calories: 81kcal | Carbohydrates: 16g | Protein: 2g | Sodium: 148mg | Potassium: 105mg | Calcium: 32mg | Iron: 1mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!