




5 from 2 votes

Classic Caesar Salad Recipe with Homemade Croutons

A classic Caesar salad is easier to make than you think. It takes only minutes to blend the homemade creamy dressing. Plan ahead to have time to make the homemade croutons. While they're cooling, you can make the dressing.Serves 4 as a side or 2 as a main dish. For the latter, you may want to top it with roasted or grilled chicken, steak, or seafood.

Prep Time10 minutes minsCroutons15 minutes minsTotal Time25 minutes mins

Course: SaladCuisine: International
 Yield: 4 servings
Calories: 205kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
IngredientsFor the Salad and Dressing1 or 2 heads romaine lettuce (see Notes)1 cup  croutons (recipe below)1/4 cup shaved Parmesan cheese, or more to taste2 or 3 anchovy fillets (1 tbsp mashed)2 tsp garlic paste (2 cloves, pressed) or to taste1 tbsp Dijon style mustard2 egg yolksfreshly ground pepper1 tbsp fresh lemon juice1 tbsp balsamic vinegar1/2 tsp  worstershire sauce2 to 3 tbsp olive oilHomemade Croutons3 slices bread (a great use for stale bread)1 tbsp melted butter or olive oilsaltpeppergarlic powderUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsAhead of Time - Make the CroutonsPreheat your oven to 400° F (200° C). Remove the crusts from the bread, then cut the bread into small evenly-sized cubes. Toss the cubes with a little salt, pepper and garlic powder. Drizzle the melted butter over the cubes and toss again.Spread the seasoned bread cubes in a single layer on your baking pan. Bake until golden and crispy, about 10 to 12 minutes. Watch carefully as once colored, they will darken quickly. Croutons made from stale bread tend to cook faster.Remove the croutons from the oven and leave to cool completely. They will store in an airtight container for up to a week. Make the Caesar SaladSet up a work area with all ingredients ready. You can measure ingredients by eye or use a regular kitchen tablespoon. In a large salad bowl, mash the anchovies to a paste with a fork or back of a spoon. If the fillets are firm, add a splash of olive oil to help with the mashing.Add the garlic and mustard and blend into the anchovy paste. Next, blend in the egg yolks and as much freshly ground pepper as you like. (I use a coarse grind.) The mixture should be well-mixed and creamy.Add the Worcestershire sauce, the lemon juice and the balsamic vinegar. Blend in thoroughly. Add the olive oil and blend again. Taste and adjust seasoning (ie. add a little more garlic or lemon juice or vinegar).Add the romaine, half of the Parmesan and half of the croutons. Toss well. Garnish with a little more freshly ground pepper and the remaining Parmesan and croutons. Serve.
Notes
Use 1 very large head of romaine lettuce or 2 medium. Remove and discard outer leaves and use only the crisp interior leaves. Break the leaves into large pieces, wash in a bowl of water and spin dry or pat dry before using.
If you don't care for anchovies, you can make the dressing without them or use less. You can also adjust the amount of garlic you use. In fact, I always suggest tasting the garlic before mixing the dressing since garlic can vary in pungency.
The dressing uses raw egg yolk. Pasteurized egg yolk can be used instead if you're concerned about the health risk.
You can use Moroccan bread (khobz) to make the croutons. It's actually a good use for leftover or stale bread.
Although Caesar salad dressing is usually made fresh at time of serving, I do occasionally make a large batch and keep some in the fridge. It lasts several days.

 
 

Calories: 205kcal | Carbohydrates: 23g | Protein: 9g | Fat: 8g | Saturated Fat: 4g | Cholesterol: 110mg | Sodium: 343mg | Potassium: 453mg | Fiber: 4g | Sugar: 4g | Vitamin A: 13905IU | Vitamin C: 8.5mg | Calcium: 172mg | Iron: 2.9mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!