




5 from 1 vote

How to Clean and Brine Chicken

Cleaning and brining chicken is an essential step in Moroccan cooking. We believe it enhances the flavor and tenderizes the chicken while also removing an undesirable after-taste and bad smell.In my small kitchen, I usually handle one to two birds, and I brine them in salty water with the addition of lemon and vinegar. The usual ratio I use is 10% of liquid is from the acidic additions but this is just a suggestion.

Prep Time10 minutes minsBrining Time2 hours hrsTotal Time2 hours hrs 20 minutes mins

Course: MainCuisine: Moroccan
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients2 chickens3 tbsp  salt1 lemon cut into 4 wedges4 tbsp white vinegarOptional1 tbsp ground gingerUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsFirst Cleaning of the ChickenDelicately insert your fingers between the skin and the meat, trying to separate them as you go while keeping the skin intact, especially if your recipe calls for roasting the chickens.Slide your fingers in the cavity and pull out fatty bits, stringy bits and anything sticking to the skeleton except the white meat. Rinse the chickens well.Brining the ChickenRub the chickens inside out with half of the salt and some of the lemon wedges. You could add ginger at this stage if using it. Put the chickens in a deep bucket or container and top them with cold fresh water. Add the vinegar, the salt and the lemon juice from the remaining lemon. Add the squeezed lemon wedges to the water as well. Set aside for at least 30 minutes, covered.Second Cleaning of the ChickenSlide your hand again between the skin and the meat and again pull any lumpy or slimy fat still trapped in between. After the brining stage, this becomes much easier and the lumps that resisted before will come off easily.If you plan to keep the skin on, make sure you pull out any bits of feather or plumes. If you have a gas hob, hover the chicken above a flame as this will burn those unwanted bits. Wash the bird once done.The tail (sot l'y laisse) as well the wing tips and drumstick tips should all be cut off and discarded. Leaving any of these bits is considered inappropriate in Moroccan cooking.Wash the chickens thoroughly and place in a colander to drain. Pat dry and transfer to plastic bags. Freeze or place in the fridge for a few hours before you cook it.
Notes
It is essential to thoroughly clean any surface that came into contact with the chicken.
Covering the chicken while it's brining is important, especially if you are going to put it in the fridge as the bacteria might spread to other items around.

 
 


Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!