




4.71 from 27 votes

Gluten-Free Khobz Recipe - Gluten-Free Moroccan Bread

This gluten-free Moroccan bread recipe yields a dough that can be shaped into a free-form loaf, perfect for making khobz or gluten-free sandwich rolls. Note that the dough requires several rising times, so will take longer to make than traditional Moroccan khobz. 

Prep Time15 minutes minsCook Time20 minutes minsResting & Rising2 hours hrs 30 minutes minsTotal Time3 hours hrs 5 minutes mins

Course: BreadCuisine: MoroccanDiet: Gluten Free
 Yield: 4 small loaves
Calories: 213kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Equipmentmixing bowlbaking sheetsparchment paper
IngredientsFor the Starter1 tsp dry yeast1 tsp sugar1 tbsp gluten-free flour (yeast-free bread mix)3 tbsp warm waterFor the Dough2 cups gluten-free flour  (yeast-free bread mix)1 tsp  salt (omit if included in your GF bread flour)1 to 2 tbsp olive oil1 cup warm water (approx.)US Customary - Metric
InstructionsIn a large bowl, whisk together the starter ingredients. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and then a towel, and set aside until foamy and doubled, about 30 minutes.Add the 2 cups of gluten-free flour, salt, oil and water to the starter. Use a rubber spatula to combine the ingredients to form a wet, sticky, spongy dough. It should be too sticky to handle but not as thin as a batter. Adjust flour or water if necessary to get that texture.Use the spatula to turn over and "knead" the dough several times. Cover the bowl with plastic and then a towel, and leave to rise until doubled in bulk, about 1 hour.After rising, the dough will have absorbed more liquid and will be easier to handle. Dust the dough with a little gluten-free flour or oil your hands to prevent the dough from sticking to you. Divide the dough into four portions and shape into loaves on a lightly floured surface. Transfer the shaped dough to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. (For Moroccan bread, a smoothed, rounded mound of dough can be left to rest, covered, for 10 minutes then patted down into a flattened circle.) Cover loosely with plastic wrap and then with a towel, and leave to rise until light and puffy, about 30 to 60 minutes.Preheat your oven to 450° F (230° C). Prick each loaf in several places with a fork then bake in the preheated oven until light golden, about 15 to 20 minutes depending on size and shape. (If the bread is pale, turn on the broiler to help with coloring the last few minutes.) The bread will feel hard when tapped but should soften as it cools.Transfer the bread to a rack or towel-lined basket to cool before serving. Once cooled completely, it can be stored in the freezer where it will keep for up to a month.
Notes
Depending on your gluten free flour mix and your oven, you may find it challenging to get a nice golden color to this bread. One trick that works for me is to fully preheat the oven, then turn on the broiler element when placing the bread in the oven. After several minutes, I turn off the broiler and continue baking normally with the oven element. I find this yields more even coloring than using the broiler element for browning at the end of baking.
Xanthan gum is not included in the list of ingredients but you can use it if you like. The standard amount for bread recipes is 1 to 2 teaspoons per cup of gluten free flour. Be sure you're using a mix that's suitable for bread baking.


Calories: 213kcal | Carbohydrates: 46g | Protein: 6g | Fat: 2g | Sodium: 585mg | Potassium: 9mg | Fiber: 6g | Sugar: 3g | Calcium: 40mg | Iron: 2.2mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!