




4.76 from 101 votes

Moroccan Harira Recipe

An authentic recipe for a hearty version of Moroccan harira, a zesty tomato, lentil and chickpea soup.Plan ahead to allow for overnight soaking of the chickpeas or to prep ingredients in advance. Cooking time is for a pressure cooker; double this time if simmering the soup in a conventional pot.

Prep Time45 minutes minsCook Time1 hour hr 30 minutes minsTotal Time2 hours hrs 15 minutes mins

Course: SoupCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 330kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Equipmentpressure cookerStock potFood processor
Ingredients8 oz. lamb, beef or chicken, diced3 tbsp vegetable or olive oilseveral soup bones (optional)2 lbs soft, ripe tomatoes (about 6 large)1 handful dry chickpeas, soaked and peeled2 handfuls dry green or brown lentils1 large onion, grated1 stalk celery (with leaves), chopped1 small bunch flat leaf parsley, finely chopped1 small bunch cilantro, finely chopped1 tbsp smen (optional)1 tbsp salt1 tbsp ginger1.5 tsp black pepper1 tsp ground cinnamon optional; see notes1/2 tsp turmeric3 tbsp tomato paste combined with 1 or 2 cups water3 tbsp uncooked rice OR broken vermicelli1 cup flour combined with 2 cups waterlemon wedges and cilantro (optional) for garnishUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsAhead of Time - Prep IngredientsSoak the chickpeas overnight. The next day, drain and peel them. This is easily done by pressing chickpeas one-by-one between your forefinger and thumb or by rubbing all of the chickpeas vigorously in a kitchen towel. (The prepped chickpeas may be be frozen until needed.)Pick through the lentils to remove any stones and debris; set aside until ready to use. Stew the tomatoes then pass them through a food mill to make a puree; discard the skins and seeds. Or, cut the tomatoes into quarters and process them, with or without skin, in a food processor until smooth. (The pureed tomatoes may be frozen until needed.)Grate the onion or process it to a thick pulp in a food processor. (The grated onion may be mixed with the pureed tomatoes and frozen until needed.)Wash the celery and finely chop it. Set aside. Remove and discard large pieces of stem from the parsley and cilantro. Wash the parsley and cilantro and leave to drain thoroughly before chopping finely by hand or in a food processor. (The chopped herbs may be mixed together and frozen until needed.)Make the SoupIn a 6-quart or larger pressure cooker or stock pot, brown the meat in the oil over medium heat. Add the soup bones, peeled chickpeas, pureed tomatoes, grated onion, spices, smen (if using) and 3 cups (710 ml) of water. Bring to a boil, cover and cook with medium pressure for 25 minutes (or simmer for 50 to 60 minutes).Add the lentils, tomato paste mixture, chopped herbs and 8.5 cups (2 liters) water. Bring to a boil and cover.  Continue to step 3 or step 4.If planning to add rice, cook the soup with medium pressure for 30 minutes (or simmer for 60 minutes); add the rice, and continue cooking with pressure for another 15 minutes (or 30 minutes by simmering). OR if planning to add broken vermicelli, cook the soup with pressure for 45 minutes (or simmer for 90 minutes) before stirring in the broken vermicelli. Continue simmering for a few minutes until the vermicelli is tender.Taste and adjust seasoning. Thicken the soup to a silky, cream-like consistency by gradually adding the tedouira (flour and water mixture), stirring constantly to ensure that it's well blended. Use only as much as is needed to make the soup as thick as you like. Simmer the soup for another 5 to 10 minutes, stirring occasionally and skimming off any foam that forms on the surface. Remove from the heat and serve. 
Notes
A skin will form on the soup as it cools. This can be stirred and blended back into the soup.
When reheating the soup, use medium or low heat and stir frequently to avoid lentils sticking to the bottom of the pot and burning.
If you'd like to freeze the soup, do so before adding the thickener and preferably before adding the rice or broken vermicelli. Allow it to cool completely before freezing. On the day of serving, thaw the soup over low heat then resume cooking from where you left off. 
Cinnamon is optional and can be omitted. While many Moroccan cooks use it when making harira, not everyone likes it. On a personal note, I do prefer harira with a small amount of cinnamon as indicated in the recipe. It's very subtle and complementary to the overall flavor of the soup when used conservatively.
Lemon wedges may be served on the side for those who like a squeeze of fresh lemon juice as a condiment for the soup. If desired, garnish with a little fresh parsley or cilantro.
Blending the flour and water tedouira ahead of time will help ensure that it's lump-free when adding it to the soup.
To make gluten-free harira, you can use cornstarch, tapioca starch, or another substitute for the flour to thicken the soup at the end of cooking.


Calories: 330kcal | Carbohydrates: 42g | Protein: 16g | Fat: 11g | Saturated Fat: 2g | Cholesterol: 29mg | Sodium: 1304mg | Potassium: 811mg | Fiber: 7g | Sugar: 7g | Vitamin A: 1505IU | Vitamin C: 25.4mg | Calcium: 52mg | Iron: 3.1mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!