




5 from 11 votes

Hssoua Belboula - Moroccan Barley Soup with Milk

This classic Moroccan recipe combines barley with milk to yield a rich, soup that's both nutritious and satisfying. Serve the hssoua for breakfast or a light supper.

Prep Time10 minutes minsCook Time40 minutes minsTotal Time50 minutes mins

Course: Breakfast, SoupCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 311kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients1.5 cups barley grits, medium caliber8.5 cups water3 tbsp olive oil1 tbsp salt2 tsp cuminpepper to taste2 cups whole milk2 tbsp butter, unsalted5 to 6 oz evaporated milk
InstructionsPick through the barley to remove any debris. Wash the barley grits several times in a large bowl filled with water, draining each time through a sieve. Wash until the water is no longer cloudy.In a small stock pot mix the barley grits, water, olive oil, salt, pepper and cumin. Bring to a simmer and cook over medium-low heat for 30 to 40 minutes, or until the soup is thick like porridge and the grains are tender. Stir several times during cooking, and be careful that the heat is not too high or the soup can boil over.Stir in the milk and bring to a simmer again for a few minutes. Turn off the heat, and stir in the butter and evaporated milk. Taste and adjust seasoning as desired. If you like, garnish each serving with with a little cumin and olive oil or a bit of butter.
Notes
Adjust the thickness of the soup to your own preference by increasing or reducing the milk.
The soup can also be made without evaporated milk. Substitute half of the water with milk, being extra careful not to let the soup boil over. When the barley is cooked, thin the soup by stirring in additional milk. Add the butter, and serve.
Reheat leftover hssoua belboula gently, adding a little water if necessary to return the soup to its original consistency.


Calories: 311kcal | Carbohydrates: 38g | Protein: 8g | Fat: 14g | Saturated Fat: 5g | Cholesterol: 18mg | Sodium: 1256mg | Potassium: 327mg | Fiber: 8g | Sugar: 4g | Vitamin A: 270IU | Calcium: 126mg | Iron: 2.1mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!