




4.87 from 22 votes

Moroccan Krachel Recipe - El Gors

These brioche-like Moroccan sweet rolls are light, fluffy and rich with flavor from anise seeds, sesame seeds and orange flower water.Start making krachel well in advance of serving because the dough must rise twice before shaping and again once after shaping for best texture. Rising times in the directions are approximate; you may need to allow additional time if your kitchen is cold.

Prep Time20 minutes minsCook Time20 minutes minsThree Risings + Resting Time (approx.)3 hours hrs 30 minutes minsTotal Time4 hours hrs 10 minutes mins

Course: Bread, Breakfast, Tea TimeCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 12 rolls
Calories: 306kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients1 tbsp dry yeast4 1/2 cups flour1/2 cup sugar, granulated1 1/2 tsp salt2 tsp anise seeds2 tsp sesame seeds (see note below)2 large eggs, lightly beaten1/2 cup unsalted butter, soft or melted3/4 cup (more if needed) warm milk2 tbsp orange flower water (see note below)Egg Wash and Garnish1 egg1 tbsp milk1 tbsp sesame seeds OR1 tbsp coarse granulated sugarUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsDissolve the yeast in a few tablespoons of warm (not hot) water and set aside to proof for 5 to 10 minutes while you start to make the dough.Measure the flour, sugar, salt, sesame seeds and anise seeds into a large bowl and stir to combine.  Add the proofed yeast to the bowl along with the eggs, butter, milk and orange flower water. Stir to form a very sticky dough. If necessary, add a little milk or flour to get this consistency. Knead the dough with a stand mixer or by hand until smooth.  It should still be quite sticky, but it will be easier to work with once it has risen.Transfer the dough to an oiled bowl, cover with plastic and a then a towel, and leave to rise 1 to 2 hours, until very puffy and doubled in bulk. Punch down the dough, turn it over, and leave to rise for another 45 minutes to an hour.Oil a large baking sheet (or line it with parchment paper). Divide the dough into 12 portions and shape each into a smooth ball. Arrange the balls of dough on the baking sheet and leave to rest for 5 to 10 minutes.Flatten each ball of dough by patting them down into a disc-shape. Cover with a towel and leave to rise for an hour or longer, until puffy and light. Preheat your oven to 450° F (230° C). Make an egg wash by combining the egg and tablespoon of milk. Brush each roll with the egg wash then garnish with sesame seeds and/or coarse sugar.Bake the rolls in the preheated oven until deep golden brown, about 15 to 20 minutes. Midway through baking, rotate your pan(s) front to back (and top to bottom if baking two sheets at a time) for even browning. Transfer the krachel to a rack to cool completely before storing or freezing.
Notes
Golden, unhulled sesame seeds are preferred in Morocco over white unhulled seeds. The rolls shown in the photo were garnished with the unhulled sesame.
Orange flower water adds lovely traditional flavor. Please select 100 percent pure orange blossom water and avoid artificially flavored varieties.
Instead of proofing the yeast, you can add yeast directly to the dry ingredients and then pour the warm milk on top. This method is fine if you bake frequently with yeast and feel assured that the yeast you have on hand is fresh and active. However, if you rarely bake with yeast or are worried that your yeast may have expired, then proofing it is an important step so that you can be assured that the yeast is active.
In either case, be sure that your milk or water is warm but not hot. Hot liquids will kill yeast while cool liquids won't activate it.
As with all sweet doughs, try to keep the dough as sticky as possible while kneading as this will yield a lighter-textured roll. 
Allow ample rising time for sweet doughs like this one, particularly if your kitchen is cold. If time becomes an issue, you can eliminate the second rising of the dough with a slight compromise in texture.
Krachel keep well at room temperature only for a day. Store extras in plastic storage bags in the freezer. They and other sweet rolls can be warmed in the microwave directly from the freezer; just avoid overheating or the rolls will dry out.
If reheating krachel in an oven, wrap the rolls in foil to keep them from becoming hard and dry.
Although not traditional, using Crisco shortening in place of the butter will yield a very light, fluffy roll. Coconut oil might also work but I haven't tried it. Do not, however, use margarine-like Moroccan versions of shortening.
If you try to avoid using refined white flours, you can substitute a little whole wheat flour and/or durum flour for some of the white. You may need to adjust liquids so that the dough has the correct sticky texture.


Serving: 1roll | Calories: 306kcal | Carbohydrates: 45g | Protein: 7g | Fat: 10g | Saturated Fat: 5g | Cholesterol: 62mg | Sodium: 382mg | Potassium: 102mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 9g | Vitamin A: 320IU | Vitamin C: 0.1mg | Calcium: 46mg | Iron: 2.7mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!