




4.60 from 15 votes

L'ham M'hammar Recipe - Moroccan Roasted Lamb or Beef with Onion Confit

M'hammar of Lamb or Beef falls into the category of dishes enjoyed by nearly everyone—even those who aren't normally fond of red meat. Lamb or beef is slow-cooked until tender enough to fall off the bone; it's then served with a spiced confit of onion. This is the signature presentation of a classic dish made with love and attention.

Prep Time15 minutes minsCook Time2 hours hrs 30 minutes minsMarinating6 hours hrsTotal Time8 hours hrs 45 minutes mins

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 436kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
IngredientsFor the Meat and Spice Rub3.3 lbs. lamb or beef shoulder with bones, cut into 5 large pieces (can also use leg or rack of lamb)2 to 4 cloves garlic, pressed or finely chopped1 tsp smen (or ghee or olive oil)1 1/2 tbsp sweet paprika1 tsp salt, or to taste1 tsp ground ginger1/2 tsp ground black pepper1/2 tsp ground white pepperFor Braising18 oz. of yellow onions, finely sliced or chopped1 pinch saffron threads1/3 to 1 cup water2 to 3 tbsp oil, mixed olive and vegetable oilFor Garnish3.5 oz. almonds blanched and friedUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsCombine the spice rub ingredients in a bowl or with pestle and mortar. Rub the mixture over the meat and massage it thoroughly. Cover and leave in the fridge for at least 6 hours or overnight.When ready to cook, transfer the meat to a heavy-bottomed, deep pot or pressure cooker. Add the sliced onions, saffron threads, water and oil. (Note: Use 1/3 cup water if preparing in a conventional pot and 1 cup water if preparing in a pressure cooker.)If cooking in a regular pot, cover and simmer the meat for about 2 hours or until tender, checking occasionally to add a little water if the liquids appear to be drying out. If cooking in a pressure cooker, cover and cook with medium-low pressure for about 80 minutes or until tender, swirling the pot occasionally to be sure that liquids remain and the meat and onions aren't burning. Interrupt to add a little more water only if necessary.The meat is cooked to proper tenderness when you can easily pinch it off the bone. When done, remove it from the pot and cover with plastic so it doesn't dry out.If you are serving this dish in the next hour, place the meat in a 400° F (200° C) preheated oven for about 20-25 min, turning it occasionally to brown it on all sides. Adjust the browning to your liking.In the meantime, continue cooking the onions, stirring frequently and taking care not to scorch them, until they have reduced to a paste-like texture. The cooking oil should be the oil liquid you see in the pot. To serve, place the meat in a warm dish and surround it by the onion paste (daghmira). Traditionally it is eaten by hand directly from the platter, using pieces of bread in lieu of a fork. 
Notes

This is a great do-ahead dish which will keep in the fridge for a week or longer in the freezer.  Refrigerate or freeze the meat (after the braising step) and the reduced confit of onions separately. The meat should be then thawed and roasted when needed and the confit of onion should be heated separately on the stove.
Moroccan tea is often served immediately afterward as it's believed to help with digestion. 

 


Calories: 436kcal | Carbohydrates: 11g | Protein: 57g | Fat: 17g | Saturated Fat: 4g | Cholesterol: 173mg | Sodium: 599mg | Potassium: 848mg | Fiber: 3g | Sugar: 5g | Vitamin A: 885IU | Vitamin C: 4.4mg | Calcium: 89mg | Iron: 5.7mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!