




4.85 from 32 votes

Moroccan Couscous with Seven Vegetables Recipe

This popular variation of Moroccan couscous features a variety of fresh vegetables stewed alongside lamb, beef or chicken. You can omit the meat for a vegetarian version; see the recipe notes.For authentic results, the couscous should be steamed three times over the simmering broth. It doesn't add much time to your active prep work, but you will need a couscoussier or other large pot fitted with a steam basket. In a pinch, you can use instant couscous, but the texture won't be the same.Dried chickpeas are preferred over canned. Remember to soak them overnight. They and other vegetables are added to the broth in increments, based on how long they take to cook.

Prep Time35 minutes minsCook Time2 hours hrsTotal Time2 hours hrs 35 minutes mins

Course: MainCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 8 servings
Calories: 940kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
EquipmentCouscoussier | Large Steaming PotExtra large mixing bowl
IngredientsCouscous2.2 lb. couscous (not instant; I prefer medium caliber)1/4 cup olive oil or vegetable oil6 cups water, divided (can use milk for final steaming)2 to 3 tsp  salt (added after 1st steaming)2 tbsp soft butter (added after final steaming)Meat and Broth Seasoning2.2 lb. lamb, beef, or goat meat, large pieces on the bone (or 1 large whole chicken)1 large onion, coarsely chopped3 fresh tomatoes, peeled and coarsely chopped1/4 cup olive oil or vegetable oil1 1/2 tbsp salt1 tbsp ginger1 tbsp pepper1 tsp turmeric1 handful parsley and cilantro sprigs, tied into a bouquet2 tsp smen - Moroccan preserved butter (optional; reserve until end of cooking)Traditional Veggies1/2 cup dried chickpeas, soaked overnight1 small head of cabbage, cut in half or quartered3 or 4 medium turnips, peeled and cut in half8 to 10 carrots, peeled  (cut in half lengthwise if large)1 or 2 small tomatoes, peeled, seeded and quartered1 or 2 small onions, cut in half (can use some whole fresh pearl onions instead)1 small acorn squash, quartered (or wedge of pumpkin)4 or 5 small zucchini, ends trimmed  (or 8-ball round, cut in half)Optional Veggies2 or 3 chili peppers or jalapeños (simmer in a little broth or steam until tender)1 cup fresh or frozen fava beans (add with 2nd steaming)2 or 3 sweet potatoes, peeled and cut in half (add with 3rd steaming)1 bottle gourd, peeled, cleaned and cut into large pieces (add with 3rd steaming)Optional Tfaya - Caramelized Onions and Raisins1/2 cup raisins,  soaked in water for 15 minutes2 or 3 large onions, preferably red1/2 cup water2 tbsp butter2 tbsp honey1/2 tsp pepper1/2 tsp cinnamon1/4 tsp ginger1/4 tsp turmeric1 pinch saffron threads, crumbled1 pinch salt1 tsp orange flower water (optional)US Customary - Metric
InstructionsAhead of TimeSoak the dried chickpeas in a large bowl of water overnight. (Or, use a quick soak method: boil the dried chickpeas for 4 or 5 minutes, then turn off the heat and leave them to soak for an hour.)Wash and prep your vegetables. Start making the tfaya (optional; see Recipe Notes).Set up an area to work with the couscous. In Morocco we use a gsaa (very wide, shallow serving and mixing dish), but another very large wide vessel or bowl can work. Have oil, water, salt, and butter out and ready. Lightly oil the steamer basket of a couscoussier.Begin Making the Broth - See Recipe Notes if Using Chicken or Making Vegetarian CouscousBrown the meat or chicken with the oil, onion, tomatoes and spices in the base of a couscoussier over medium-high heat. Continue cooking, uncovered and stirring frequently, for about 10 to 15 minutes, until a very thick and rich sauce begins to form. Add the soaked, drained chickpeas along with the parsley/cilantro bouquet and about 3 quarts (or liters) of water. Bring to a boil, cover, and cook over medium heat for about 30 minutesFirst Steaming of the CouscousDrizzle 1/4 cup of oil over the couscous. Toss and roll the couscous around between your hands for a minute to distribute the oil evenly and break up any balls or clumps. Add 1 cup of water and work it into the couscous in the same way--tossing and rubbing the couscous until all is well blended and there are no clumps. Transfer the couscous to a lightly oiled steamer basket, taking care not to compress the grains in the process. Place the basket on the couscoussier and steam for 15 to 20 minutes, timing from when the steam first appears over the couscous.Second Steaming of the CouscousTurn the couscous back into your gsaa or bowl. Allow it to cool briefly, then work in 1 cup of water, using the same tossing and turning as you did before. (You may need to use a wooden spoon if the couscous is too hot, but move to using your hands when it has cooled enough.)Add the salt in the same manner, then add in another 1 cup of water. Toss and roll and rub the couscous with your hands for a good minute or two, again making sure there are no balls. Transfer the couscous back to the steamer basket, again taking care not to compress or pack the grains.Add the cabbage, onions, tomatoes (and fava beans, if using) to the couscous pot, then place the couscous basket on the couscoussier. Steam for 15 to 20 minutes, timing from when you first see steam emerge from the couscous.Third and Final Steaming of the CouscousTurn the steamed couscous out into your gssaa or bowl. Add the turnips and carrots to the pot; cover and allow them to cook for 15 minutes while you work with the couscous.In increments, work 2 to 3 cups of water or milk into the couscous in the same manner as before--tossing and turning and rubbing the grains between your hands and making sure there are no clumps. Use only as much water or milk as needed to make the couscous al dente.Taste the couscous for salt and add a little more if desired. Transfer half of the couscous to the steamer basket, again being careful not to pack the grains. Add the remaining vegetables to the pot--the squash or pumpkin, the zucchini and the sweet potatoes if using. Top with a little water if the level has dropped below the vegetables. Taste and adjust seasoning--it should be well flavored, a bit salty and peppery.Place the couscous basket back on the pot and cook until steam begins to emerge from the couscous. Gently add the remaining couscous to the basket and continue cooking. Once you see steam rise from the couscous, allow it to steam for another 10 to 15 minutes, or until light and fluffy and the latest additions of vegetables have cooked.Serving the CouscousTurn the couscous out into your bowl and work in the butter. Add the smen (if using) to the broth in the pot and swirl to incorporate.Work about 1 cup of broth into the couscous, tossing as you did before. Arrange the couscous into a large, shallow mound in your gsaa or on a deep serving platter. Make a large indentation in the middle to hold the meat. Retrieve the meat from the pot and place in the center of the couscous. Top it with the cabbage and squash or pumpkin. Retrieve the other vegetables from the broth with a slotted spoon and arrange all around meat (in pyramid fashion, if you like). Garnish with the chickpeas (and/or fava beans), chili peppers and even the bouquet of parsley if you like.Drizzle several cups of broth carefully over the couscous. Offer the remaining broth in bowls on the side.Tfaya is optional and can be used as a garnish or served on the side. 
Notes
To make tfaya, combine all tfaya ingredients (except for the orange flower water) in a small pot. Cover and simmer over medium-low heat until the onions and raisins are tender and liquids have reduced to a thick syrup, about 30 minutes to 1 hour. Stir occasionally, and add a small amount of water during cooking if it's needed. An optional last step is to add a little bit of orange flower water to taste. Serve warm.
If you are using chicken, be sure to remove it from the pot once it has cooked. Check after the first steaming of couscous. Free-range chickens may or may not require the entire cooking time.
You can reheat chicken for serving by adding it to the pot for a few minutes at the very end of cooking, but I prefer to brown it in a 425° F (220° C) oven.
To make a vegetarian version of couscous with seven vegetables, omit the meat or chicken in the first step of making the broth. Follow the directions as written unless you are using canned chickpeas instead of dried, soaked ones. In that case, once a thick sauce has formed from the onions and tomatoes, you can add the water and proceed directly to the first steaming.
If preparing vegetarian couscous, you may want to add additional oil to yield a richer broth. Olive oil adds flavor and I actually use it routinely when making couscous.
In our house, it's all about the broth. I often increase seasoning and water by half to ensure that we have ample broth for serving on the side. You don't need to do that, but do be sure to top off the water and check seasoning from time to time while cooking. 
Dried chickpeas that have been soaked overnight are preferred to canned. If you do use canned, drain and add them to the broth at the very end of cooking, after the final steaming of couscous. No need to simmer; they'll heat through while your're busy assembling the couscous for serving.
A note about carrots. Many Moroccans insist on cutting them in half lengthwise to remove the core. I prefer not to do that unless the core is dry and woody. If you do take this step, the carrots will cook faster than if they contain the core and/or are left whole, so you may want to adjust when you add them to the pot. I'll leave small and medium carrots whole, for example, but I'll cut very large carrots in half.
Steaming couscous is the only way couscous is made in Morocco. Be sure no steam is escaping between the steamer basket and pot. If it is, loosely wrap a long piece of folded plastic wrap over the rim of the pot and then position the steamer on top; the plastic film should create a snug seal.
For an extra delicious steamed couscous, use milk in place of water for the final steaming.
If you must use instant couscous, be sure to reconstitute it with broth from this recipe. Avoid making it soggy; it should be light and fluffy.


Calories: 940kcal | Carbohydrates: 130g | Protein: 49g | Fat: 24g | Saturated Fat: 6g | Cholesterol: 59mg | Sodium: 1565mg | Potassium: 1444mg | Fiber: 14g | Sugar: 12g | Vitamin A: 800IU | Vitamin C: 56.2mg | Calcium: 160mg | Iron: 6.8mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!