




4.63 from 78 votes

Moroccan Cookies with Evaporated Milk - Ghoriba au Lait Concentré (Purisima)

These soft, cake-like Moroccan ghoribas are flavored with evaporated milk and lemon zest. An easy-to-make tea time treat or after school snack.

Prep Time35 minutes minsCook Time15 minutes minsTotal Time50 minutes mins

Course: CookiesCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 50 cookies (2"or 5 cm)
Calories: 50kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients2 large eggs1/3 cup unsweetened evaporated milk  (Purisima)1 cup vegetable oil1 cup powdered sugar4 tsp baking powder1 to 2 tsp vanilla (or 1 to 2 envelopes vanilla-flavored sugar)zest from 1 or 2 lemons1 pinch of salt4  cups flour (approx.; use more or less as needed)For Garnishpowdered sugarorange flower waterdesiccated coconut US Customary - Metric
InstructionsMix the DoughThere's no need for an electric mixer as the dough is quite easy to mix by hand. In a large bowl, use a large spoon or whisk to beat the eggs and oil until frothy. Add the evaporated milk, powdered sugar, baking powder, vanilla, lemon zest, and salt. Stir or whisk until smooth, then mix in just enough flour (start with 3.5 cups and add more as needed) to make a very soft, manageable dough that can be shaped into balls. Shape and Bake the CookiesPreheat your oven to 350° F (180° C). Line three baking sheets with parchment paper.Take small portions of dough and roll them into small balls the size of walnuts. Flatten each ball by gently pressing or patting it into a thick disc shape. (If you like, at this point you can dip the dough in orange flower water and then in coconut.) Place the shaped dough on the lined baking sheets, spaced about two inches (5 cm) apart.  Bake the cookies, one pan at a time, for about 15 minutes, until lightly colored or pale golden. Remove from the oven and transfer the parchment paper with the cookies to a rack to cool. Garnish and Store the CookiesUse a strainer or sifter to dust the cookies with powdered sugar. Store the cookies in an airtight container at room temperature for up to a week or in the freezer for up to two months.

Serving: 1cookie | Calories: 50kcal | Carbohydrates: 9g | Protein: 1g | Cholesterol: 7mg | Sodium: 5mg | Potassium: 57mg | Sugar: 2g | Vitamin A: 15IU | Calcium: 24mg | Iron: 0.5mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!