




5 from 1 vote

Moroccan Courgette Salad with Chermoula

Cooked courgettes (zucchini) with chermoula is an easy traditional starter or side dish on a Moroccan table. The use of fresh herbs and a good olive oil is key. You do not have to have a ready-made chermoula for it as the ingredients show. But in case you do, do not hesitate to use it as it will save you time or boost the flavor.You can choose to make it spicy, but generally the zucchini salad is served on the mild side.

Prep Time10 minutes minsCook Time20 minutes minsTotal Time30 minutes mins

Course: Salad, Side DishCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 4 servings
Calories: 138kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients1 lbs zucchini (courgette)2 medium-size tomatoes (optional)2 oz cilantro (coriander) and parsley, finely chopped2 cloves of garlic, peeled, grated and crushed3 tbsp olive oil1/2 tsp  ground cumin1/2 tsp harissa or cayenne powder (optional)1 tsp salt1 tbsp sweet paprikaUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsPeel several long strips of skin from the zucchini; you want the vegetable to be partially pared, with one strip of skin on and one strip off. Cut in half lengthwise and core the seedy area. Cut again in length to have 4 wedges in total (more if it's a large vegetable). Dice the wedges.If using tomatoes, peel them, discard the seeds and finely chop them.Peel the garlic. Grate or press one and leave the other whole.Season the zucchini with salt and steam along with the whole garlic until nearly cooked. (Or parboil the zucchini in just enough water to cover the diced vegetable. Cover with a lid and place over medium heat until the water has evaporated and the vegetable is nearly cooked.)In the meantime, sauté the rest of the ingredients in olive oil. You may need to add a couple tablespoons of water if you fell the mixture is too dry. Once the zucchini is ready, fold it in the chermoula mix and cook for a minutes, stirring frequently, until the vegetable is fully cooked and well-coated with the seasoning. Serve cold as a salad or warm if serving as a side dish.
Notes
You can also use a ready-made chermoula, it this case, you can omit the grated garlic and the chopped herbs.
In either case, you may want to add an extra spoonful of chermoula to the finished salad.

 

Calories: 138kcal | Carbohydrates: 7g | Protein: 4g | Fat: 11g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Sodium: 597mg | Potassium: 784mg | Fiber: 3g | Sugar: 1g | Vitamin A: 3125IU | Vitamin C: 65.9mg | Calcium: 54mg | Iron: 2.5mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!