




5 from 2 votes

Moroccan Brochettes with Lamb or Beef Heart and Kidney

Heart and kidney kebabs feature one of the most common combinations of offal you might come across in Morocco. The spice marinade is the same one used for boulfaf and kouah. All are served with that famous trinity of cayenne, cumin and salt for an extra dip in seasoning before eating. Of course, a good bread (pita or baguette will do here) and a hot glass of mint tea will round off an irresistible meal.

Prep Time20 minutes minsCook Time20 minutes minsMarinating1 hour hrTotal Time1 hour hr 40 minutes mins

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 678kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients2.2 lbs Mix of kidney and heart, lamb or beef12 oz caul fat or kidney fatDry Rub1 1/2 tbsp sweet paprika2 tsp cumin1 1/2 tsp salt1/2 tsp cayenne, optionalSpice Mix for Servingcayenne, to tastecumin, to taste1 tsp saltUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsPreparation and MarinadeRemove the transparent membrane from the kidney and cut the kidney into 1/2 inch cubes. Cut the heart the same way.Dice the kidney fat (suet) into 1/2 inch cubes. If you are using caul fat instead, cut it into squares as wide as the cubes.Make a dry rub with the spices listed above and massage it evenly onto the cubes of fat and offal. Cover and set aside or place in the fridge. Marinate for at least an hour to overnight.Grilling the Heart and Kidney KebabsPrepare the grill and wait for the flames to die down and for the charcoal to develop a thin grey cover.Thread heart and kidney cubes, alternating each couple of pieces with fat. About 6 cubes of kidney/fat per skewer should be fine. Place the skewers over the hot coals and make sure the flame does not reach the skewers. Keep rotating them so they cook evenly from all sides. They should be firm outside but soft from the inside. Avoid overcooking as it will result in a rubbery heart or kidney kebab.To ServeServe the brochettes hot from the grill, generously sprinkled with the condiment spice mix. Make sure you have a hot Moroccan tea and a good sandwich bread or wrapping flatbread to go with it. We love when the bread has soaked up the juices from the kebab. We also like to serve a fresh tomato, onion and cucumber salad on the side of these and other grilled kebabs.

Calories: 678kcal | Carbohydrates: 1g | Protein: 30g | Fat: 60g | Saturated Fat: 32g | Cholesterol: 244mg | Sodium: 1138mg | Potassium: 538mg | Vitamin A: 935IU | Vitamin C: 3.3mg | Calcium: 22mg | Iron: 8.1mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!