




5 from 3 votes

Moroccan Avocado Milkshake

Moroccan avocado milkshakes are enjoyed throughout Morocco, especially during the nights of Ramadan. They're thick, delicious smoothies made from ripe avocado and milk along with sugar or honey to sweeten.Vary the avocado milkshake by blending in dried fruits or nuts. Non-dairy milks can be used in place of regular milkBest served chilled.

Prep Time5 minutes minsTotal Time5 minutes mins

Course: DrinksCuisine: MoroccanDiet: Halal, Vegetarian
 Yield: 3 servings
Calories: 237kcal
Author: CHRISTINE BENLAFQUIH | TASTE OF MAROC
Equipmentcutting boardKnifeblender
Ingredients2 to 3 cups milk  or non-dairy milk1 medium ripe avocado2  tablespoons sugar or honey or to tasteOptionalhandful of ice cubesUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsRemove the Flesh from the AvocadoPlace the avocado on a cutting board and cut it in half lengthwise. This is easily done by cutting through lengthwise to the middle of the avocado until you can feel the knife touch the pit, then rotating the avocado to continue cutting around the pit's circumference. Twist or pull the two halves of the avocado apart.Remove the pit. If it's a bit stubborn, try hitting the blade of your knife against the pit until it's inserted. Lift the knife up with the pit on the blade.With a spoon, scoop the avocado flesh from the skin of both halves. Remove any spots that have discoloration.Blend the MilkshakePour 1 to 1½ cups of milk into a blender. Add the avocado and sugar (or honey) to taste. Blend the ingredients until smooth.Continue adding milk in increments until the milkshake is the texture you prefer. The ripeness of the avocado and how big it is will determine the amount of milk you will need.Taste for sweetness, blending in more sugar or honey to taste. Serve the Avocado ShakeThe avocado shake is best served chilled. If serving immediately, you may want to blend in a few ice cubes.Pour your milkshake into glasses, garnish if you like, and serve.
Notes
Almond milk or other non-dairy may be used instead of dairy milk.
Use honey instead of sugar for a natural sweetener.
Add dried fruits, figs, or dates to pack naturally sweet flavor.
You can add banana, apple, or mango for a fruity blend.
Add a sprig of mint and one or two chopped almonds on the surface.
Chopped pecans can also be used to garnish the surface and add a nutty flavor.
An avocado spoils very quickly once it's peeled, so if you're not using the whole avocado wrap the other half in plastic and store it in the refrigerator for up to 48 hours. You can also store it in the freezer for 6 months.


Serving: 3servings | Calories: 237kcal | Carbohydrates: 22g | Protein: 6g | Fat: 15g | Saturated Fat: 4g | Cholesterol: 16mg | Sodium: 75mg | Potassium: 540mg | Fiber: 4g | Sugar: 17g | Vitamin A: 361IU | Vitamin C: 7mg | Calcium: 192mg | Iron: 1mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!