




5 from 4 votes

Moroccan Cabbage Salad with Chermoula - Zaalouk Mkaouar

Zaalouk Mkaouar or Mderbel Mkaouar is the Moroccan name for this cabbage salad with chermoula. It is another versatile and vegetarian recipe made with basic ingredients. Be sure to make the chermoula ahead of time; the link is in the instructions below.Chermoula lifts the cabbage's flavor while a final touch with lemon or vinegar adds zingy balance, especially if you choose to make the salad slightly spicy. All these flavors come together nicely at the end.

Prep Time10 minutes minsCook Time25 minutes minsTotal Time35 minutes mins

Course: Salad, Side DishCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 97kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients1 lb white cabbage (about 1 small)1/4 cup chermoula paste1 tbsp  tomato paste1/2 tsp  ground cumin1/2 tsp cayenne, or harissa, to taste2 tbsp olive oilFor garnishing1 preserved lemon rind, cut into wedgesblack olivesparsley leaves,  chopped1 tsp  olive oil2 tbsp white vinegar  or lemon juice, to tasteUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsWash the cabbage well and cut into wedges. Discard the inner core.Simmer in boiling salted water until it becomes al dente. It should take about 10 to 12 minutes. Transfer the cabbage to a colander to drain.When cool enough to handle, use a knife or a food processor to coarsely chop the cabbage. You can decide which texture you want to serve at this point.Over medium heat, heat the oil in a pan. Add the chermoula, the tomato paste and the spices. Cook for 1 minute. Fold in the cooked cabbage, cooking and stirring for about 5 minutes to combine. (I use a spatula to break up the cabbage further and allow the chermoula to be soaked in.) Season to taste then set aside to cool.Once the cabbage has cooled, stir in vinegar or lemon juice to taste.To serve, transfer the cabbage salad to small plates, drizzle with olive oil, and garnish as desired.This salads keep will in the fridge for up to a week. It's ideally served at room temperature but can also be served slightly warm or cold.

Calories: 97kcal | Carbohydrates: 6g | Protein: 1g | Fat: 7g | Sodium: 143mg | Potassium: 209mg | Fiber: 2g | Sugar: 2g | Vitamin A: 675IU | Vitamin C: 35.8mg | Calcium: 39mg | Iron: 1.1mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!