




4.71 from 126 votes

Moroccan White Bread Recipe - Khobz

A traditional recipe for homemade Moroccan bread or khobz, a Moroccan flatbread served at nearly every meal. This version is for white bread but you can mix in wheat, semolina or other flours.Yields 2 8" loaves.

Prep Time15 minutes minsCook Time20 minutes minsRising Time1 hour hr 15 minutes minsTotal Time1 hour hr 50 minutes mins

Course: BreadCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 8 servings from 2 8" loaves
Calories: 267kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
EquipmentExtra large mixing bowlbaking sheetsparchment paperStand mixer
Ingredients4 cups white flour preferably high gluten or bread flour 2 tsp salt2 tsp sugar1 tbsp yeast2 tbsp oil olive oil or vegetable oil1 1/4 cups water warm (not hot)oil, semolina or cornmeal optional (for preparing the pan)US Customary - Metric
InstructionsPrepare a large baking sheet by lining it with parchment paper OR lightly oiling it OR dusting it with semolina or cornmeal. Set aside.Combine the flour, salt and sugar in a large bowl. Make a well in the center and add the yeast.Add some of the water to the yeast in the well and lightly stir with your fingers to dissolve the yeast (see Recipe Notes below). Add the rest of the water and oil to bowl and stir to combine all ingredients. Knead the dough (in the bowl if it's large enough or on a floured work surface) for 5 to 10 minutes until smooth and elastic. While kneading, work in a little flour or water as needed to ensure the dough is soft and pliable but not sticky.Divide the dough into two smooth mounds and place well apart on the prepared pan. Cover with a towel and leave to rest for 10 to 15 minutes.After resting, pat the mounds of dough into flat, round loaves about 1/4" thick. Cover again with a towel and leave to rise for about an hour (longer in a cold room), until the dough springs back when pressed lightly.Preheat your oven to 435°F (225°C). When the oven is hot, lightly score the top of the bread with sharp knife or poke in several places with a fork. Bake the khobz in the preheated oven, rotating the pan if necessary, for about 20 minutes or golden brown. The loaves should sound hollow when tapped.Transfer the khobz to a rack or towel-lined basket to cool. 
Notes
If you're not sure that your yeast is not fresh and active, please proof it before adding it to the ingredients in step 3. This is done by dissolving the yeast in a little warm water with a pinch of sugar. The mixture should become foamy within 10 minutes, indicating the yeast is active and ready to use. If the mixture doesn't turn foamy, discard it and get fresh yeast before proceeding. 
You can use a stand mixer with dough hook to knead the dough. Simply combine the ingredients as described above in the bowl of the mixer before fitting it to the machine. Keep a careful eye for the first minute or two to make any necessary adjustments to flour and/or water.
Sesame seeds make an attractive and tasty garnish for Moroccan white bread. Golden, unhulled sesame is preferred in Morocco. The seeds can be pressed into the top of the dough when shaping the loaves (first brush the dough with water to help the seeds adhere) or added just prior to baking (gently brush the risen dough with an egg wash and sprinkle with the sesame).

 

Calories: 267kcal | Carbohydrates: 49g | Protein: 7g | Fat: 4g | Sodium: 585mg | Potassium: 81mg | Fiber: 2g | Sugar: 1g | Calcium: 9mg | Iron: 2.9mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!