




No ratings yet

Moroccan Petite Fekkas with Chermoula - Fkikssate b'Chermoula

Petite fekkas with chermoula is a twice-baked version of savory fekkas. Rods of dough are baked for a short time and taken from the oven while still springy. After cooling, they're thinly sliced and baked again. You could use these savory fekkas instead of croutons over soups and salads. They really lift such dishes.Adjust the heat or the spiciness to your liking. I often add paprika and thyme. Make a big batch as they tend to disappear quickly.

Prep Time20 minutes minsCook Time35 minutes minsResting1 hour hrTotal Time1 hour hr 55 minutes mins

Course: CookiesCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 8 servings
Calories: 245kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients9 oz all purpose flour, sifted2.2 oz butter,  melted and cooled2 tbsp olive oil1 tsp harissa paste1/2 tsp ground black pepper1.2 oz cream cheese3 tbsp chermoula paste1 tsp salt1/2 tsp instant dried yeast1 tsp baking powder1 to 2 oz water, lukewarm, depending on the consistency of chermoula used and flour absorption.For rolling and shaping2 oz all purpose flour US Customary - Metric
InstructionsYou can use a food processor or mix the ingredients by hand.Mix all liquid ingredients except the water.  Add the flour, baking powder and salt. Then add as much water as needed to make the dough. How much depends on the absorption of the flour. You need to form a smooth and non sticky dough. Divide the dough into 4 smaller dough balls. Preheat the oven at 338° F (170° C). Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.Shape rods of dough anywhere between 0.2"/5 mm and 0.4"/1 cm thick and long enough to fit on your baking sheet. It's okay if you make them shorter too.  Bake for about 15 minutes or until the rods start moving easily from the baking sheet if you push them with your finger. Also, the dough tends to become paler and springy to the touch. Ideally, place your tray on the middle rack. However, you can bake two trays at the same time if your oven can accommodate them. You may need to rotate the trays to ensure even baking. Once the dough rods are baked, remove them from the oven and immediately cover with a couple of kitchen towels. This prevents them from drying out and traps the steam, making them easy to cut later on. Set aside to cool for at least 1 hour.Use a sharp flat and uniform knife (avoid a serrated knife as will cause more breakage) to slice the rods diagonally into petite fekkas about 0.3" thick. It works best to hold 2 rods parallel to each other and cut. It goes faster and limits the breakage.Delicately transfer all these fekkas to a single layer on a baking sheet (no greasing or baking paper needed this time). You do not need to leave space between fekkas as they won't expand or stick. Bake at 325° F (160° C) degrees for 12-15 minutes or until they turn nicely golden. Once I see the middle of each fekkas looking nearly baked, I turn off the oven and leave them inside for a few more minutes. This works well when baking a big batch and you are worried some of them might get over-baked.Once completely cooled, store in airtight containers or in plastic bags for 3 to 5 weeks. They can also be frozen.
NotesWhat to do with broken fekkas: 

Eat them.
Use them to thicken sauces or as a crumble topping for fish, vegetables and salads.

 
 

Calories: 245kcal | Carbohydrates: 30g | Protein: 4g | Fat: 11g | Saturated Fat: 5g | Cholesterol: 21mg | Sodium: 369mg | Potassium: 110mg | Fiber: 1g | Vitamin A: 250IU | Calcium: 38mg | Iron: 1.9mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!