




4.58 from 35 votes

Moroccan Pureed Vegetable Soup

This Moroccan version of a pureed vegetable soup is sure to be a family favorite. Easy to make, it uses a mix of veggies that commonly show up in couscous such as carrots, turnips, cabbage, pumpkin and zucchini. Quantities and variety of veggies are only suggestions. You can use whatever you have on hand and add them, coarsely chopped to a pot. Barely cover with broth, stock or bouillon and you'll be well on the way to a fantastic bowl of soup!

Prep Time20 minutes minsCook Time45 minutes minsPuree Time10 minutes minsTotal Time1 hour hr 15 minutes mins

Course: SoupCuisine: International, Moroccan
 Yield: 12 servings
Calories: 124kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
EquipmentStock potblenderimmersion blender
IngredientsSuggested Mixed Vegetables ( approx. 4.5 quarts when chopped)1 onion or 2 leeks2  stalks celery with leaves12 medium carrots peeled4 medium turnips peeled3 small potatoes peeled3 medium zucchini stems discarded1.5 cups peas or green beans1 wedge pumpkin rind discarded1/2 small cabbage1/2 small cauliflowerStock and Seasoning 3 quarts broth, stock or bouillon chicken or vegetable3 tablespoons butter or olive oil1 handful parsley 1/2 teaspoon black peppersalt to taste, if needed3 cloves garlic (optional)2 teaspoons vinegar (optional)US Customary - Metric
InstructionsCoarsely chop all the vegetables and place them in a stock pot.Add the seasoning and enough stock, broth or bouillon to barely cover the veggies.Bring the stock to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to medium and simmer the soup, partially covered, for 30 to 40 minutes.Allow the soup to cool for 20 minutes. Puree the vegetables in the pot with an immersion blender, or process the veggies with the broth in batches in a blender. (See notes below.)If the pureed vegetable soup is thicker than you like, stir or blend in a small amount of water or additional broth.Taste and adjust seasoning. Serve warm.Leftover Pureed Vegetable Soup will keep well in the fridge for up to five days or in the freezer for up to two months.
Notes
Please be extra careful when pureeing hot soup, particularly if using a regular blender. Only fill the blender jar half full, leave the feeding tube out of the lid so steam can escape, hold a towel over the lid, and process at a lower speed. Otherwise pressure can build up in the jar and push the top right off, allowing the soup to splatter and burn you.
Lots of other veggies and legume combinations work well in this soup such as cauliflower, broccoli, butternut squash, etc.  You might also consider adding a bowlful of red lentils.
Fresh or powdered ginger can be added as seasoning. Sometimes I add a little cayenne pepper for heat.


Serving: 1serving | Calories: 124kcal | Carbohydrates: 18g | Protein: 5g | Fat: 5g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Sodium: 960mg | Potassium: 804mg | Fiber: 6g | Sugar: 9g | Vitamin A: 10534IU | Vitamin C: 72mg | Calcium: 85mg | Iron: 2mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!