




4.75 from 4 votes

Moroccan Almond Milkshake Recipe

This easy, healthy almond shake is a Moroccan favorite in Ramadan. A tiny bit of orange flower water gives it traditional flavor. 

Prep Time10 minutes minsCook Time0 minutes minsTotal Time10 minutes mins

Course: DrinksCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 2 servings
Calories: 319kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Equipmentblenderimmersion blender
Ingredients1/2 cup whole blanched almonds or almond flour1 1/2 cups cold milk1 tablespoon sugar or honey adjust to taste1 teaspoon orange flower water adjust to taste1 handful ice cubes optionalOptional1 drop almond extract or flavoring3 drops mastic gum crushed to a powder with 1/4 tsp sugarUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsIf you're using whole blanched almonds: Place the blanched almonds in a blender and process until the almonds are a fine powder. If you're using almond meal: Just add the meal to the blender and jump to the next step.Add the milk, sugar (or honey) to taste, and orange flower water. Bend on high speed to mix well. If desired, add ice cubes while the blender is running to chill the drink even more. Continue processing until the ice has been fully blended into the milkshake.Pour into glasses and serve immediately. 
Notes
Mastic is optional but a traditional ingredient in some recipes. Use the back of a spoon to crush the grains to a powder with 1/4 teaspoon sugar before adding it to the milk. 
The ground almonds tend to settle to the bottom of the glass if the beverage sits too long. If this happens at the table, simple stir with a spoon before drinking.
If you want to make the almond milkshake in advance, leave it in the blender's pitcher in the fridge so you can quickly re-blend just before serving.
Use 100 percent pure orange flower water for best results. It can be omitted if you don't care for it.
If the almond milkshake is missing a little flavor, add a drop of almond extract to give it a boost.
You can vary the almond milkshake by adding a little fresh avocado or dried fruits such as dates, figs, or raisins. Delicious and extra healthy!


Serving: 1glass | Calories: 319kcal | Carbohydrates: 21g | Protein: 12g | Fat: 22g | Saturated Fat: 5g | Cholesterol: 18mg | Sodium: 85mg | Potassium: 448mg | Fiber: 3g | Sugar: 17g | Vitamin A: 296IU | Calcium: 281mg | Iron: 1mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!