




4.82 from 11 votes

Moroccan Bessara Recipe - Dried Fava Bean Dip or Soup

Bessara (or bissara) is a Moroccan pureed bean dish made from dried fava beans, garlic, olive oil, and Moroccan spices. It's popular both as street food and as a family meal, especially in the north of Morocco.Although traditionally a bit bland, garnishing bessara with cumin, cayenne pepper or harissa, and a generous drizzle of good olive oil quickly elevates the humble dish into tasty comfort food. All can be offered on the side as condiments.Serve the puree on the thick side as a dip or thinned as a soup for breakfast, dinner, or anytime in between.Allow time for overnight soaking of the beans.

Prep Time15 minutes minsCook Time1 hour hr 15 minutes minsSoaking Time8 hours hrsTotal Time9 hours hrs 30 minutes mins

Course: Main Course, Side DishCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 309kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
EquipmentStock potimmersion blenderblender
IngredientsFor the Bessara Dip or Soup12 oz. dried split fava beans about 2.25 cups⅓ cup olive oil6 to 7 cloves garlic crushed6.5 cups water 2 tsp paprika2 tsp ground cumin1.5 tsp salt or to taste1 to 2 tbsp lemon juice or to taste; optionalCondimentssaltcuminground cayenneharissaolive oil extra virginUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsAhead of TimePlace the dried split fava beans in a bowl and cover with several inches of cold water. Leave to soak at least 8 hours or overnight.Make the BessaraDrain the soaked beans and remove skins, if any.Place the beans in a pot and add the water, olive oil, garlic, and spices. Bring the beans to a boil then reduce the heat and simmer, partially covered, until the beans are tender, about an hour.Drain the beans in a strainer set over a bowl. Reserve the cooking liquids.Puree the beans until smooth with an immersion blender, blender, or food processor, using as much reserved broth as needed to reach your desired consistency. Stir in the lemon juice. Taste and adjust salt, keeping in mind that condiments will add flavor at the table.At serving time, reheat the puree gently over medium-low heat. Serve the bessara as a dip or soup with olive oil, cumin, salt, and cayenne or harissa on the side as condiments.
Notes
Don't skimp on the condiments at the table — they're important to bessara's delicious flavor! Choose a good quality olive oil and consider using freshly ground cumin seeds for a more robust flavor.
Be careful not to scorch the bessara when reheating. It's best done over medium-low heat with frequent stirring.
It's not traditional, but you can replace some of the cooking water with broth or stock. 

 

Calories: 309kcal | Carbohydrates: 35g | Protein: 15g | Fat: 13g | Saturated Fat: 2g | Sodium: 604mg | Potassium: 641mg | Fiber: 15g | Sugar: 3g | Vitamin A: 367IU | Vitamin C: 3mg | Calcium: 78mg | Iron: 4mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!