




5 from 4 votes

Moroccan Stuffed Spleen Recipe - Tihane or La Rate Farcie

A traditional Moroccan recipe for calf or beef spleen (tihane) stuffed with a seasoned ground beef (kefta) and rice mixture. This will generously serve 6 as a main dish and even more when part of a large spread of food.

Prep Time40 minutes minsCook Time1 hour hrTotal Time1 hour hr 40 minutes mins

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 664kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Equipmentmixing bowlcutting boardshallow roasting panbasting thread and needle
Ingredients1 veal or beef spleen (tihane), trimmed of fat18 oz. finely ground beef or lamb (or a mixture of the two)8 oz. suet (chehma), finely chopped1 to 1.5 cups cooked rice1/2 cup pitted green olives,  chopped1 or 2 preserved lemons, flesh only, seeded and chopped1 medium onion, grated1 head garlic, cloves peeled and pressed1 bunch fresh parsley, chopped1 bunch fresh cilantro, chopped2 eggs, lightly beaten2 tbsp tomato paste or red pepper paste or <a href="https://tasteofmaroc.com/harissa-dried-chili-pepper-paste/"harissa4 tsp ground cumin4 tsp ground paprika1.5 tsp salt, or to taste1 tsp cayenne pepper, or to tasteYou Will Also Need3 or 4 hard-boiled eggs, peeled but left wholedisposable cooking gloves or plastic baga large needle and basting threadparchment paperUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsMake the FillingThe filling may be prepared up to a day in advance. In a large bowl, combine the ground beef or lamb, chopped suet, rice, olives, preserved lemon, onion, garlic chopped herbs, beaten eggs, tomato paste and seasoning. Knead the mixture by hand for several minutes to ensure that everything is evenly blended. If you aren't ready to use the filling, cover and refrigerate it until needed.Clean the SpleenIt's best to work with the spleen the same day that you acquire it. Trim it of its fat, but do try to leave the white membrane as it will help hold the spleen intact once it has been stuffed. Wash the spleen and pat it dry. Be sure handle it gently, as raw spleen is quite fragile.Stuff the SpleenPlace the cleaned spleen on a large tray or cutting board. At one end of the spleen, along the middle of its side, make a slit large enough to accommodate your hand. Cover your hand with a disposable cooking glove or plastic bag, then insert your hand. Gradually work your hand in deeper toward the opposite end to make a cavity that runs the length of the spleen. The spleen's flesh is delicate and will give way easily (the incision you made will stretch open a bit as you work), but take care not to tear through the wall of the spleen.Bit by bit, insert handfuls of the filling into the cavity you created. Use your hands to squeeze and direct the filling to the very end of the spleen.Use as much filling as you can; the spleen should be quite plump. (Note: If you have leftover filling, shape it into small patties and pan-fry. The patties can be served separately or alongside the spleen as garnish.)Add the hard-boiled eggs to the middle of the filling, centering and spacing them as evenly as possible.Sew the Spleen ShutClose the opening with loose basting stitches, then mold and shape the filling throughout the spleen to create an evenly rounded, cylinder-like shape. Press the filling gently away from the seam, and then sew the spleen shut a second time with smaller stitches which are spaced closer together. Transfer the spleen to a large baking pan lined with parchment paper.Bake the Stuffed SpleenPreheat your oven to 400° F (200° C). Place the tray in the preheated oven and bake the spleen, uncovered, for 45 minutes to 1 hour, or until well-browned and almost no juices are released when the spleen is poked with a skewer or toothpick. During the roasting, rotate the pan halfway through for even coloring, and baste once or twice with the juices that collect in the pan. If no juices collect, you can release some by poking the stuffed spleen in several places along its length.Serve the Stuffed SpleenAllow the spleen to cool briefly before slicing and serving. The fully cooled stuffed spleen can be refrigerated for several days or frozen for up to two months. Slicing it before freezing will allow you to take individual servings as needed. Reheat slices of the stuffed spleen in a grill basket over charcoal, in a lightly oiled frying pan over medium heat, or wrapped tightly in foil in the oven. 

Calories: 664kcal | Carbohydrates: 7g | Protein: 39g | Fat: 53g | Saturated Fat: 25g | Cholesterol: 447mg | Sodium: 990mg | Potassium: 554mg | Fiber: 2g | Sugar: 2g | Vitamin A: 2120IU | Vitamin C: 17.2mg | Calcium: 80mg | Iron: 4.6mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!