




4.30 from 10 votes

Moroccan Almond Macaroon - Mlewza or Ghrieba d'ellouz

In Morocco, this sweet treat has many names; mlewza, ghriebat el a'kda, ghrieba d'ellouz or bellouz. It looks and feels like an Italian artisan Ricciarelli.Ghrieba bellouz is easy to make and it keeps for a good couple of weeks. You can also freeze it for months, well sealed. It will only need 15 minutes thawing before serving. I like to crumble it to make a cheat version of Moroccan almond juice or mix it with a good vanilla ice-cream.

Prep Time15 minutes minsCook Time15 minutes minsTotal Time30 minutes mins

Course: CookiesCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 40 cookies
Calories: 125kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients1.13 lbs almonds  blanched, skinned and well dried (do not use almond powder)7 oz caster sugar1 pinch of salt2 tbsp  apricot jam, measured after straining1 egg, medium-size1 egg yolk, medium-size2 tbsp butter, melted and cooled3 to 4 grain of mastic gum1/2 tsp baking powder1 1/2 tsp lemon zest4 drops almond extract (optional, if you suspect that the almonds lack flavor)Finishing and decoration8 oz icing sugarUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsMake an almond paste with the sugar and almonds until it forms a paste or nearly there. You will need a good food processor for this. In a pestle and mortar, mix 1 teaspoon of sugar with the grains of mastic gum and crush them to a powder. Alternatively, use the back of a glass and crush the mix. Flavor the almond paste with this mix.Preheat the oven to 350° F (180° C) and cover 2 baking sheets with baking paper. Fill a large bowl or a deep plate with the icing sugar intended for the finishing.Lightly whisk the eggs with the sugar and salt. Break the almond paste into rough pieces and add it along with the rest of the ingredients. Mix until everything looks homogeneous. Do not overwork. You can do this by hand as well as with a food processor. Be sure there are no lumps left in the mix.Shape small smooth balls of about 0.7 oz or 1.2" diameter. If your hands get sticky, wash them and keep them slightly moistened to carry on. Some people place a large bowl of water and a towel alongside so they don't have to keep going back and forth the the sink.Drop the shaped balls into the icing to coat the top and sides with icing sugar.Place the ghreiba balls on the baking sheets leaving at least 3" space between them. Slight flatten by pressing your thumb in the middle but do not over-flatten it.Baking and storing ghriebaConvection oven: Place the tray in the middle of the oven and bake for at least 12 min. If more time is needed, turn the baking sheet for even coloring and continue baking for a few minutes or until the ghriebas are ready.Conventional oven: Place the baking pan in the top third of the oven with the grill on for about 5 minute or until the tops of the cookies crack. Move the rack to the middle or lower third of the oven to finish baking. I usually use both the grill and oven heat at the same time so the cookies bake in 15 to 18 minutes.Once cooled, store in an airtight container. I suggest you place a layer of baking paper or foil between each layer so the nice icing does not get damaged by friction between ghriebas.
Notes
Mastic gum or meska is the secret ingredient that gives this ghrieba delicate taste while the spoon of jam reinforces the chewy texture and makes it last. Mastic gum is not to be confused with gum arabic as the former is used for flavoring and texture. It is a resin from Pistacia lentiscus. Also beware of false meska.
You can replace the apricot jam with a sweet orange marmalade, just make sure to chop the orange rinds before adding it to the mix. Ideally, you can blend it with the almonds so it is combined perfectly.

 

Calories: 125kcal | Carbohydrates: 14g | Protein: 2g | Fat: 7g | Cholesterol: 10mg | Sodium: 7mg | Potassium: 98mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 11g | Vitamin A: 30IU | Vitamin C: 0.2mg | Calcium: 38mg | Iron: 0.5mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!