




4.25 from 4 votes

Moroccan Kefta dyal Gharb Recipe - Kefta dyal L'ham

Making a good Moroccan kefta (minced or ground beef) is about the right ingredients and the right handling. It starts with a mix of cuts and the right animal fat and continues with a specific spice mix and a few herbs. Kefta is one of the top street food options you might encounter in Morocco. Each one of us have his or her own favorite list of restaurant-grills which serve the most delectable sandwich along with a good mint tea, a cold soda and even some fries. This recipe captures the essence of kefta we used to enjoy in the Gharb region in northwest Morocco.

Prep Time15 minutes minsCook Time20 minutes minsTotal Time35 minutes mins

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 474kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients1.65 lbs meat, mixture of lean and fatty parts such as leg of lamb, flank, middle chest and large chest, cut into big cubes8.8 oz kidney fat (suet) diced small1 onion, medium-sized grated or finely choppedSeasoning1/4 cup flat leaf parsley,  leaves only, finely chopped3 to 5 mint leaves finely chopped1 tsp  dried marjoram1 1/2 tsp ground cumin2  tsp ground sweet paprika1 1/2 tsp  salt1/2 tsp ground cayenne,  or to taste1 tsp ras el hanout1 tsp ground coriander seedsExtra Seasoning for Serving, combined or served apart1 tsp salt1  tbsp ground cumin1 tsp cayenneUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsGrind the MeatFirst, use the machine to grind the meat and the fat. Then add the herbs and spices and grind a second time. Note: If you'll be freezing the kefta mixture, wait to add the grated onion until the day you thaw and use the kefta. That's because the onion does not freeze well.  Shaping the KeftaIt's always useful to have a bowl of water handy. When we shape kefta, the hands tend to become sticky. Wetting our hands and pat drying them helps with shaping the rest of the kefta. Do this whenever you find it difficult to shape the ground meat.The kefta for grilling is usually shaped one of the following ways: - Mini-burgers about 2 inch round and no more than 1/3 inch thick,   - Fingers about 4 inch tall and 1/2 inch thick  - A lump is squeezed around the sfafeds or qotban (metal skewers) to form a sort of long sausage. You can shape kefta a few hours ahead, cover it and place it in the fridge or you can do that as you prepare the grill or the barbecue.Grilling KeftaPrepare the brasero/bbq. Make sure the flames have enough time to calm down. Start grilling when you see the charcoal covered with a layer of grey-silver ash. This way you ensure the kefta will be grilled properly.Place rows of kefta fingers or burgers side by side in a grill basket as it will be easy to flip it later.Grill each side for a few minutes. Rotate the grill to the other side. It should be well done but juicy from inside according to Moroccan standards. Some like it well done with burnt edges and some like it just medium.Serving KeftaMy dad's traditional tip for serving a juicy kefta: the addition of a knob of butter over the pile of kefta fingers while still piping hot. The combination of the juice from the meat and the butter melting with the heat is something to die for. We used to rush on the plate and wipe a few drops of this juice with the bread. To all of us, it was as important as the Kefta itself.Grilled Kefta is always served with bread which will be soaked in its juices after forming the sandwich and squeezed on. When the grills are on the menu, they are accompanied by fresh and cooked salads. During winter, lentils or white beans will most likely be served as a side dish.Serve with a hot Moroccan tea. Otherwise, a green tea with a few mint leaves inside will do.We enjoy making sandwich by sprinkling the garnishing mix over the meat, adding a bit of harissa or green olives, a finely chopped tomato and cucumber salad seasoned with cumin, salt and pepper. 
Notes
In general, Moroccan butchers offer to add herbs and spices while grinding meat as part of their normal service. Some people like my family prefer to buy their ground meat plain and season it themselves at home.
My family grates a couple of onions to the kefta mix before shaping it. It keeps it moist and adds more flavor. However, any kefta going to the freezer should not have onion added to it.
Using fresh spices play a major role in deciding how much to add. Freshly ground spices always deliver best results. Adjust the quantity according to the strength of the spices in your cupboard.
The breast of lamb is located at the bottom of the body of the animal. Cartilaginous and rich in bone, it is composed mainly of the muscles of the abdomen. It's a choice piece, full of flavors.
You can use beef, veal or lamb meat or you can mix them.
If you don't have ras el hanout handy,  just add the following mix to your kefta before cooking or grilling it: 
• ¼ tsp cinnamon powder
• A pinch of clove powder
• 2 or 3 dried rose petals
• 4 inch of dry galangal or ginger powder
• ¼ tsp of freshly grated nutmeg


 

Calories: 474kcal | Carbohydrates: 3g | Protein: 17g | Fat: 43g | Saturated Fat: 23g | Cholesterol: 78mg | Sodium: 1026mg | Potassium: 322mg | Vitamin A: 740IU | Vitamin C: 5.4mg | Calcium: 30mg | Iron: 3mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!