




4.82 from 16 votes

Moroccan Chicken Rfissa - Trid with Chicken and Lentils

A delicious Moroccan dish of chicken, lentils and onions served with broth on a bed of shredded pastry, msemen, or bread. Plan ahead to allow all day or overnight marinating of the chicken. The trid pastry or msemen can be made ahead of time or while the chicken and lentils are stewing. You can eliminate the prep work of making pastry or msemen by using leftover bread or even store-bought paratha bread.

Prep Time1 hour hrCook Time2 hours hrsMarinating6 hours hrsTotal Time9 hours hrs

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 614kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients1 large chicken, quartered or left whole3 large onions, thinly sliced1/2 cup olive oil1 tbsp salt1 tbsp pepper1 1/2 tbsp  ginger1 tbsp Ras el Hanout (or 1 1/2 tbsp msakhen)1 1/2 tsp turmericFor the Lentils1/2 cup uncooked lentils,  green or brown4 tbsp fenugreek seeds, soaked overnight and drained1 1/2 tsp  saffron threads, heated gently and then crumbled1 handful fresh cilantro, finely chopped1 handful fresh parsley, finely chopped4 1/2 cups water1 1/2 tsp smen (Moroccan preserved butter)Msemen or Trid1 1/2 batches msemen, shredded (or trid pastry)US Customary - Metric
InstructionsAhead of Time Making and shredding msemen is best done ahead of time. Tear the msemen into bite-size pieces while hot off the griddle. When cool, store in a plastic bag. If prepared more than a day in advance, freeze the shredded msemen until needed.The night before (or at least six hours before cooking), soak the fenugreek seeds and lentils in separate bowls of cold water. (If you forget to do this, you can do a quick soak by pouring boiling water over the fenugreek and lentils and letting them sit an hour or two.) Drain when ready to use.  If desired, the soaked, drained fenugreek seeds can be tied in a cheesecloth to keep them separate from other ingredients in the pot.The night before (or at least six hours before cooking), mix the chicken with the onions, olive oil, salt, pepper, ginger, turmeric, saffron and Ras el Hanout spices in a heavy-bottomed pot. Stir to coat the chicken well, cover, and leave in the fridge to marinate.Cook the Chicken and LentilsPlace the pot with the chicken on the stove over medium heat and cook, covered, stirring occasionally, for about 15 to 20 minutes, until a rich sauce has formed. If using a free range (beldi) chicken: Add the drained fenugreek seeds, parsley, cilantro and the water. Cover and simmer over medium-low to medium heat for about 1 hour. Add the drained lentils and continue cooking, covered, for another hour, or until the chicken and lentils are quite tender. Add water as needed during cooking to ensure that ample broth remains in the pot, and correct seasoning if necessary.If using a regular, factory-raised (roumi) chicken: Add the drained lentils, drained fenugreek seeds, parsley, cilantro and the water. Simmer, covered, over medium-low to medium heat for about 1 hour, or until the lentils are tender and the chicken is well-cooked. There should be rich, ample broth in the pot. (If there's not, add a little water during cooking, tasting to be sure that the seasoning is not diluted.)Taste the broth for salt, then add the smen, swirling the pot to incorporate it into the broth. If desired, remove the chicken from the pot and place it under a broiler for a few minutes to brown and crisp the skin.Serve the Chicken RfissaSteam the shredded msemen in a couscoussier for about 10 minutes, or until steaming hot and tender. Spread or mound the hot, shredded msemen on a large serving dish. Add the chicken to the bed of msemen, and distribute the lentils, onions and most of the broth over all. Reserve a bowlful or two of broth to offer on the side. (If you tied the fenugreek in cheesecloth, empty it into a bowl to offer on the side as well.)Rfissa is traditionally enjoyed communally from the serving dish, with each person eating from his own side of the plate by hand or with a spoon.
Notes
My family loves a generous amount of broth as well as a generous bed of pastry or msemen. I often increase the seasoning and liquids by half to ensure ample broth is available to serve on the side. 
Halfway through cooking, taste and adjust seasoning, particularly if topping off the liquids. You want the broth to be very flavorful.
Fenugreek imparts a traditional flavor to rfissa, but not everyone likes to bite into the cooked seeds. As noted in the directions, tying the seeds in a cheesecloth allows you to keep them separate from the main dish at serving time. Overnight soaking both softens them and reduces their pungency. 
Smen is a preserved, clarified butter that adds a distinctive flavor to traditional Moroccan dishes such as this one. It can be omitted without too much compromise, but its absence will be noted by those familiar with the dish.
Steaming is the traditional method of tenderizing and heating the shredded pastry or msemen (or stale bread), but you can use the microwave instead. Sprinkle a little water over the shredded pastry, cover and microwave until hot. The cover traps the steam and has the same effect as steaming. 
If your chicken cooks faster than the lentils, remove it from the broth and set aside, covered, to avoid it falling apart in the broth. Once the lentils are cooked, you can return the chicken to the pot to heat through for serving.
If serving the chicken whole rather than cut into pieces, you can remove it from the pot when nearly cooked and finish it by roasting in a 450° F (230° C) oven.


Calories: 614kcal | Carbohydrates: 23g | Protein: 35g | Fat: 42g | Saturated Fat: 9g | Cholesterol: 116mg | Sodium: 1299mg | Potassium: 646mg | Fiber: 8g | Sugar: 3g | Vitamin A: 280IU | Vitamin C: 9.7mg | Calcium: 72mg | Iron: 5.8mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!