




5 from 2 votes

Moroccan Potato Salad with Chermoula - Batata Mchermla

Moroccan potato salad with chermoula seems to be everyone's favorite in our house. Some like it without a drop of sauce left while others prefer to mash the potatoes in a reduced sauce. It is a very easy recipe to make. You can serve it spicy hot or mild. Whichever way you choose, it's always best served the same day. Traditionally the chermoula for this salad should be made with cilantro only. Since my chermoula recipe (link below) includes only a little parsley, we can still use it here. 

Prep Time10 minutes minsCook Time25 minutes minsTotal Time35 minutes mins

Course: Salad, Side DishCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 79kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients1 lb potatoes, peeled (approx.)1/4 cup chermoula paste1 tbsp  tomato paste1/2 tsp harissa pasteTo garnishgreen or purple olivespreserved lemon rind, cut into small strips or small cubes1 tsp olive oilUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsCut the peeled potatoes into cubes of about 1/4" to 1/2". Place the cubes in a cooking pot or frying pan. Add half of chermoula and all the seasoning. Add enough water to cover all ingredients. Put a lid on and simmer on medium heat for about 7 minutes. Add the rest of chermoula and a little water if necessary. Continue cooking, adding only a little water as needed, until the potatoes are tender and the remaining sauce is reduced. Since potatoes tend to absorb liquid while cooling, it's okay to have ample sauce in the pan; just be sure it's reduced and not watery. The sauce also helps when we have leftovers and we want to reheat them.Drizzle some olive oil over the potatoes before serving and decorate with some purple olives and/or preserved lemons. Using potato leftoversYou can make a quick version of this salad if you have leftover baked or steamed potatoes. Cut or coarsely break the potatoes with a fork. Heat a few tablespoons of olive oil in a pan and add the chermoula. Cook for a few seconds then stir in the potatoes. Add a few tablespoons of water if needed and cover. Simmer on low heat for about 2 minutes; just enough time to allow the potatoes to infuse with chermoula. Making potato salad without a pre-made chermoulaIf you do not have a batch of chermoula ready, have its ingredients ready but omit the parsley and lemon or vinegar. Cook the potatoes with the salt, garlic and chopped coriander. When the potatoes are nearly tender, add the rest of the seasoning along with the olive oil and cook for a few minutes.

Calories: 79kcal | Carbohydrates: 11g | Protein: 2g | Fat: 3g | Sodium: 142mg | Potassium: 390mg | Fiber: 2g | Vitamin A: 540IU | Vitamin C: 16.7mg | Calcium: 31mg | Iron: 3.1mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!