




4.60 from 5 votes

Moroccan Fried Sardines Stuffed with Chermoula

Fried sardines stuffed with chermoula is one of the most emblematic dishes of Moroccan street food, even if one is not in a coastal city. Small fresh sardines are best. You can make your chermoula ahead of time; a link is in the ingredients below.

Prep Time15 minutes minsCook Time20 minutes minsMarinating2 hours hrsTotal Time2 hours hrs 35 minutes mins

Course: Main Course, Side Dish, SnackCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 618kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients2.2 lbs fresh sardines (ideally small), scaled, boned and butterflied1 cup chermoula paste1 tsp salt, or to tasteFor frying1 cup frying oil3 cups flour1 cup durum flourGarnishinglemon wedgesfresh parsleyUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsTrim the sardines and wash them in fresh water. Drain in a colander and pat dry.Rub the sardines with 1/3 of the chermoula paste and add some salt to taste. (If you like, you can thin the chermoula first with a couple tablespoons of water.)Lay a sardine skin side down. Spread generously with chermoula and top symmetrically with another sardine, skin side up. Set aside and repeat with the remaining sardines and chermoula. (Alternatively, you can use a single sardine; fill it with some chermoula and fold it over on itself.)  Cover and marinate the stuffed sardines in the fridge for at least 2 hours . Frying sardinesRemove the sandwiched sardines from the marinade. drain them and coat them with a mix of white and durum flour.Shallow or deep fry them in a hot oil for about 3 minutes per side. Drain the excess oil and transfer to fried sardines to a plate lined with a kitchen towel or paper.Serving suggestionsServe the fried sardines hot, warm or at room temperature over a bed of parsley or salad leaves. Garnish with lemon wedges and a nice chili sauce such as harissa.Fried fish is usually served alongside Moroccan white beans in tomato sauce and/or fresh salads such as cucumber, tomato and onion salad.

Calories: 618kcal | Carbohydrates: 24g | Protein: 32g | Fat: 45g | Saturated Fat: 16g | Cholesterol: 63mg | Sodium: 820mg | Potassium: 666mg | Fiber: 2g | Sugar: 1g | Vitamin A: 2260IU | Vitamin C: 30.4mg | Calcium: 508mg | Iron: 4.3mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!