




5 from 3 votes

Moroccan Steamed Chicken with Spinach and Chermoula Stuffing

Stuffed and steamed chicken is a light dish for those avoiding fat. The steaming process ensures that the whole chicken remains moist, even the breast section. Then we roast the chicken for about 20 minutes, just enough time to give it a nice finish and also concentrate the flavors. This combination of cooking methods dates back only two decades in my family, and we all agree it takes the dish to another level.This is another recipe calling for chermoula marinade. If you don't have it handy, just make sure you chop the fresh herbs finely before using them.

Prep Time20 minutes minsCook Time1 hour hr 20 minutes minsMarinating1 hour hrTotal Time2 hours hrs 40 minutes mins

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 8 servings
Calories: 597kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients2 whole chickens, 3.3 lbs./1.5 kg each1/2 cup chermoula paste1 tbsp  lemon juice freshly squeezed1 tsp  salt1 tbsp harissa paste mild, to tastepulp of 1 preserved lemon seeds discardedStuffing1 cup chermoula paste2 lb. chopped raw spinach  (can use frozen)1/4 cup long grain rice (optional)1/2 cup green or purple olives, pitted and chopped1 preserved lemon rind, chopped1 tbsp harissa, to tasteRoasting2 tbsp butter or olive oilGarnishing1 lb new potatoes1 lb carrots, roughly diced or sliced1 lb zucchini, in chunks or sticks1 lb green beans1 tbsp salt1 tsp ground black pepper1 tsp ground cumin5 tbsp butter3 tbsp parsley, choppedUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsPrepping (can be done 1 day ahead)Brine the chicken ahead of time and pat dry. Season with salt.Make 1 1/2 cups chermoula if you haven't already. Stir in harissa to taste, then measure out 1/2 cup and set aside the remaining chermoula for the stuffing.Add the finely chopped preserved lemon pulp to the 1/2 cup of chermoula. Generously rub the mixture inside the chicken's cavity as well as under and above the skin. Parboil the rice in boiling salted water for about 10 min. Drain and set aside to cool.Making the stuffing (can be done 1 day ahead)Steam the chopped spinach (or chard, purslane, mallow) in a couscoussier (or other large steamer) over hot boiling water. Don't worry about fitting all that pile into the couscoussier; the greens will shrink as they steam so you can add more progressively.  When the greens are wilted, set them aside to cool then squeeze out the excess liquid.In a saucepan or frying pan, slightly saute the chermoula for a minute, then stir in the chopped spinach and all the other ingredients. Fold in the rice, stir and set aside.Stuff the chicken's cavity from the bottom then from the neck to ensure it's properly filled. Leftover filling can be inserted carefully under the skin by the neck and thighs. Seal the cavity with a toothpick (or truss the chicken for a better finish).Steaming (can be made 1 day ahead)Depending on the size of your steamer or couscoussier, steam the chicken one after the other or together at the same time. It usually takes about 1 hour. It is advised to turn the chicken halfway through steaming to ensure it's cooked properly. I suggest you start by placing the chicken breast side down.RoastingJust before serving, brush the chickens with butter or olive oil. Roast the chickens from both sides for about 20-30 minutes at 400 F/200 C until they look nicely golden.The vegetables for garnishingIf you plan to serve this dish without the roasting step, begin steaming the vegetables halfway through cooking the chicken. Either use another steamer for the vegetables or lift the chicken, scatter the vegetables (mixed or in separate piles) and place the birds back. Carry on steaming as per previous guideline. (The vegetables can be seasoned in this step, unless you want to saute them in butter later on.) Alternatively, you can boil the vegetables separately in salted water. Make sure to not to let them get mushy as we still need to season and saute them in butter.Heat the butter, mix in the other ingredients (cumin, parsley etc). Fold in the vegetables and delicately stir. Knock off the heat and set aside, covered. Keep warm.ServingPlace the chickens in the middle of a large serving dish and scatter the vegetables around. Serve hot or warm.
Notes
The liver, heart, gizzard are also roughly diced and added to the stuffing. They should be sauteed separately with a bit of seasoning (salt, pepper, chermoula, olive oil) before adding them to the rest. 
I like to eat chicken leftovers cold. They are really nice over a leafy salad or in a sandwich along with a spread of mustard and a few green salad leaves.
You could use rice vermicelli instead of rice for the herb stuffing; follow cooking instructions on the package then drain and chop (or cut them with scissors) before using them.
The chermoula used for the stuffing does not have to be a paste. You can get away with chopping the herbs in this case finely or coarsely.
Potatoes can be steamed or boiled then seasoned and brushed with oil or butter. Finally, we roast them along with the chicken for a nice crusty layer.

 

Calories: 597kcal | Carbohydrates: 52g | Protein: 39g | Fat: 28g | Saturated Fat: 8g | Polyunsaturated Fat: 2g | Monounsaturated Fat: 2g | Cholesterol: 97mg | Sodium: 2063mg | Potassium: 1852mg | Fiber: 9g | Sugar: 12g | Vitamin A: 27800IU | Vitamin C: 118.2mg | Calcium: 303mg | Iron: 6.9mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!