




5 from 6 votes

Moroccan Liver Kebabs Recipe - Kouah

Grilled liver skewers (kouah) are extremely popular throughout Morocco, where all kinds of offal are very much appreciated. Plan to cook the kebabs over charcoal for authentic flavor. Eat directly from the skewer or make into a sandwich with a traditional tomato and onion salad along with green olives and harissa. 

Prep Time10 minutes minsCook Time10 minutes minsMarinating1 hour hrTotal Time1 hour hr 20 minutes mins

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 4 servings
Calories: 355kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients1.1 lbs calf or lamb liver less than 48 hrs old (young liver is better)4 oz kidney fat (suet), optional but recommendedThe Marinade1 tsp salt1 tbsp ground sweet paprika1/2 tsp  ground cuminTo Serve as Condiments (mixed or separately)1 tsp cayenne pepper optional1  tsp ground cumin1  tsp saltUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsPrep and Marinate the LiverRemove the transparent membrane surrounding the liver. Cut the liver into cubes about 3/4 inch (2 cm) thick.Cut the fat/suet into small cubes. Combine the cubed liver and cubed fat with the spices. Cover and leave to marinate for at least an hour (or as long as overnight) in the fridge. GrillingPrepare your grill and light the charcoal. The grill is ready for cooking when the flames have gone out and the coals have developed a thin grey cover.While the grill is heating, thread the cubes of liver onto the skewer, alternating every few pieces with a cube of the kidney fat. Don't leave any space between the pieces but don't over pack the skewers either. We usually have 6 to 8 cubes of liver on each skewer.Grill the kebabs, turning to cook on all sides, until the liver is cooked through and lightly seared but still a bit spongy when squeezed.  Serve immediately.Serving SuggestionsServe hot from the grill, generously sprinkled with cumin and cayenne powder or offer the spices on the side as condiments.Make sure you have hot Moroccan tea and a good sandwich bread (khobz, batbout, pita or baguette) to go with it.We also like to serve fresh tomato/onion/cucumber salad on the side of these grilled kebabs. Dip in with the bread, or use it as a sandwich filler along with the liver.
Notes
It's always advisable to select fresh liver (no older than 48 hours) which has the least ventricles and veins possible. Calf liver is preferred to lamb liver for texture and also because it's easier to handle.
There are two options to go about this recipe. 1) Cube and marinate the raw liver as described above; or 2) Slice the liver into 3/4 inch (2 cm) thick steaks and pre-grill them for 1 minute on each side to sear the liver (and "smell the heat" as we say) before cubing and marinating. 
The same recipe can be followed to make Moroccan kidney and heart skewers/kebabs. 

 

Calories: 355kcal | Carbohydrates: 12g | Protein: 51g | Fat: 9g | Saturated Fat: 3g | Cholesterol: 686mg | Sodium: 2502mg | Potassium: 896mg | Fiber: 1g | Vitamin A: 44255IU | Vitamin C: 4mg | Calcium: 30mg | Iron: 14mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!