




4.88 from 8 votes

Moroccan Cracked Barley Soup with Tomatoes - Hssoua Belboula Hamra

Zesty with ginger and pepper, this Moroccan barley and tomato soup is usually offered as a light evening meal or as breakfast fare. 

Prep Time15 minutes minsCook Time45 minutes minsTotal Time1 hour hr

Course: Breakfast, SoupCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 4 servings
Calories: 387kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients1 cup cracked barley or barley grits (medium or large caliber)4 tbsp olive oil3 oz. beef or lamb, diced (one handful)1 onion, grated (medium)2 or 3 tomatoes, grated (seeds and skin discarded)3 tbsp fresh parsley, chopped1.5 tsp salt, or to taste (less if using stock)1 tsp black pepper1 tsp ginger1 tsp turmeric (optional)2 tbsp tomato paste, or to taste (optional)8.5 cups water (can use stock or broth instead)US Customary - Metric
InstructionsWash the barley grits in a bowl of water and drain. Repeat several times until the water is no longer cloudy when swishing the barley around. Leave the barley to drain while you start the soup.In a 3-quart (3-liter) or larger pot, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the grated onions and meat, stirring until the onion is translucent and the meat is browned.Add the grated tomatoes, chopped parsley, spices and water (or stock). Bring to a boil over high heat then reduce the heat and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes.Add the tomato paste (if using) and the barley grits. Continue simmering for another 15 minutes, or until the barley and meat are tender and the broth is slightly thickened.Taste and adjust seasoning, and serve.

Calories: 387kcal | Carbohydrates: 46g | Protein: 9g | Fat: 19g | Saturated Fat: 3g | Cholesterol: 15mg | Sodium: 986mg | Potassium: 494mg | Fiber: 9g | Sugar: 4g | Vitamin A: 875IU | Vitamin C: 16mg | Calcium: 54mg | Iron: 2.7mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!