




4 from 2 votes

Moroccan Chicken, Lamb or Beef M'qualli with Pumpkin Paste - D’jaj (or L’ham) M’qualli Mderbel

Cooked with lamb, beef, chicken or quail, this Moroccan m'qualli with pumpkin paste is a festive dish. In some Moroccan cities, the chicken version is served during Eid al Mawlid.Allow a quail, quarter of a chicken, or up to 1/2 lb. of lamb on the bone per person, and adjust the cooking time according to the type of meat used. The pumpkin paste can be made in advance. ( Link in recipe below.)

Prep Time10 minutes minsCook Time45 minutes minsMarinating Time1 hour hrTotal Time1 hour hr 55 minutes mins

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 4 servings
Calories: 765kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
IngredientsChicken (or Meat) and Marinade3.3 lb free range chicken (brined, skinned and cut into 4 or 6 pieces); or 2.2 lbs. lamb or beef (on the bone)1 tsp smen (optional)a generous pinch of saffron threads1  tsp ground turmeric1 tsp ground ginger1/2 tsp ground black and white pepper3/4 tsp saltCooking Sauce1 medium-size yellow onion, finely chopped1/4 cup vegetable and olive oil (may be reduced by half for a lighter version)1  clove garlic grated, (optional)small bouquet of fresh cilantro/coriander (optional)1/2 tsp salt1/2 tsp  ground black and white pepper1/2 tsp turmeric1 tsp ground ginger1 cinnamon stick 1 tbsp clear honey or sugar1/2 tsp  ground cinnamon (optional)Garnish1 cup  pumpkin paste (see recipe)1  tbsp  sesame seeds, toastedUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsPrepping Make the marinade: In a small glass bowl, cover the saffron threads with 1/4 cup of hot water and set aside for about 10 minutes. Stir in the salt, turmeric, ginger pepper and smen.Transfer the marinade to a large bowl. Add the chicken or meat, turning and rubbing each piece to coat them all well. Cover and leave to marinate for a minimum of 1 hour (or as long as overnight).Cooking StageTransfer the chicken with its marinade to a deep cooking pot with a heavy bottom or a tagine (see Notes). Add the chopped onion and top with 1/4 cup of water.Bring to a simmer for 10 to 15 minutes over medium heat while stirring and  turning the meat a few times. You may cover the pot during this step and uncover it to stir.When the water seems to have mostly evaporated, and the chicken or meat has turned golden on all sides, add the oil and other remaining ingredients, except for the honey.Add enough water to reach no more than 2/3rd the level of chicken or meat. Cover and let simmer until the chicken or meat is tender and the liquids are reduced.During cooking, regularly check to be sure that there are still liquids. Add more water if necessary, particularly when cooking lamb or beef which will require a longer cooking time.At the end of cooking, the liquids should have reduced. Add the honey and stir. Tip: If the chicken has cooked but you still have a good amount of liquid, fish out the chicken, cover it with foil or cling film, and leave it on the side while you carry on reducing the liquids. Serving GuidelinesTraditionally, we start by pouring some marqa/sauce into the serving plate then we place the chicken on top. We top the chicken with enough pumpkin paste (barely warmed) for everyone. If you have used a tagine to cook you just need to place it directly in the middle of the table.Sprinkle with toasted sesame seeds or blanched, fried and crushed almonds. You could serve extra pumpkin paste in side plates to go with the dish.
Notes
The chicken and its sauce are usually served hot, so be sure to heat the pumpkin paste used to garnish the dish.
Extra pumpkin paste can be served cold or at room temperature on small plates as a side or cooked salad. 
If cooking in a clay or ceramic tagine, the use of a diffuser is recommended. Use no more than a medium-low heat, and allow additional cooking time as compared to regular pot cooking.

 

Calories: 765kcal | Carbohydrates: 15g | Protein: 50g | Fat: 55g | Saturated Fat: 14g | Cholesterol: 199mg | Sodium: 924mg | Potassium: 685mg | Fiber: 3g | Sugar: 7g | Vitamin A: 9930IU | Vitamin C: 9mg | Calcium: 85mg | Iron: 4.4mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!