




4.62 from 36 votes

Moroccan Fish Tagine Recipe with Chermoula and Vegetables

A classic Moroccan tagine of chermoula-marinated fish and veggies. Preserved lemon, olives and Moroccan spices add additional flavor.In Morocco we make this tagine with meagre, sea bass, sea bream or any other firm, thick fish. You can also use whole sardines, whole whiting or conger eel. The latter can be fatty but offers the advantage of having relatively few bones to contend with at the table.

Prep Time30 minutes minsCook Time1 hour hr 30 minutes minsMarinating2 hours hrsTotal Time2 hours hrs

Course: MainCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 377kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Equipmenttaginedeep skilletserrated tomato peeler
IngredientsFor the Tagine35 oz. firm thick fish, cut into pieces1 batch  chermoula (see below)1/3 cup olive oil1 large onion, thinly sliced2 large potatoes,  cut into 1/4" (0.5 cm) slices1  or 2 carrots, cut into 1/4" (0.5 cm) sticks2 tomatoes, sliced2 bell peppers (any color), thinly sliced, seeds removedfresh lemon slices for garnish1/2 cup  red or green olives (optional)1 preserved lemon, quartered (optional)1 or 2 fresh chili peppers, for garnish (optional)For Seasoning the Vegetables1 teaspoon ginger1/2 teaspoon salt (or to taste)1/2 teaspoon pepper1/2 teaspoon turmericFor the Chermoula2 cups fresh cilantro (about 1 large bunch), finely chopped4 cloves garlic, very finely chopped or pressed1 tablespoon cumin2 teaspoons paprika1 teaspoon  salt1 teaspoon ginger (optional)1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper (optional)1/4 teaspoon  saffron threads, crumbled (optional)3 tablespoons vegetable or olive oil2 tablespoons  fresh lemon juice, approx.US Customary - Metric
InstructionsAhead of Time - Marinate the FishPlace all chermoula ingredients in a bowl and stir to combine. If the marinade is thick and paste-like, thin its consistency with a little more oil or lemon juice or a tablespoon or two of water.Reserve half of the chermoula marinade; cover and refrigerate until needed. Use the other half to marinate the fish, coating each piece thoroughly with the chermoula. Cover and leave to marinate in the fridge for at least 2 hours or overnight.Assemble the TagineAdd the olive oil to the base of a large tagine or a deep skillet. Add the sliced onion, covering as much of the tagine as possible. This serves as a bed for the remaining ingredients.Arrange the sliced carrots over the onion, then arrange the potato slices over the carrots. Sprinkle with the salt, pepper, ginger and turmeric.  Arrange the sliced tomatoes atop the seasoned potatoes, then distribute the reserved chermoula over the tomatoes.Add the fish and its marinade, then garnish the fish with the sliced peppers, chili peppers and lemon slices. Add the olives all around.Cook the Fish TagineAdd 1/4 to 1/2 cup water to the tagine, cover and place over medium-low to medium heat. (Use a diffuser beneath the tagine if cooking over a heat source other than gas.)Allow the tagine to slowly reach a simmer, then continue simmering over medium-low heat for about 1 hour, or until the fish and veggies are cooked and the liquids are reduced to a thick sauce.If you'd like to add preserved lemon, do so now. Allow a few minutes for the lemon to heat through, then remove the tagine from the heat and serve.
Notes
If using conger eel, you may not need to add any water to the tagine as the eel tends to release liquid as it cooks. 
If at the end of cooking you find you have excessive sauce in the tagine and don't have time to wait for it to reduce, you can carefully ladle or pour out the sauce into a small saucepan to reduce separately. Add the thickened sauce back to the tagine for serving.
Preserved lemons will add quite a bit of saltiness which is why they're added as a garnish at the end. If you'd prefer to add them at the beginning of cooking so they can flavor the sauce, omit the salt when seasoning the vegetables.
In the North of Morocco another type of clay vessel called a tagra is used for fish tagines. Many, if not most, tagras do not have covers. Covering the tagra loosely with aluminum foil should work fine.

 

Calories: 377kcal | Carbohydrates: 9g | Protein: 32g | Fat: 23g | Saturated Fat: 2g | Cholesterol: 81mg | Sodium: 879mg | Potassium: 1005mg | Fiber: 2g | Sugar: 4g | Vitamin A: 2500IU | Vitamin C: 62.1mg | Calcium: 47mg | Iron: 1.7mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!