




5 from 1 vote

Moroccan Trotters Recipe (Hergma) with Raisins, Chickpeas and Wheat Berries

Hergma is a traditional Moroccan dish of trotters, chickpeas and/or wheat berries. This classic variation includes the addition of raisins for a layer of sweetness. Calf or lamb feet (kour3ine) are preferred, but goat may be used instead. The feet and lower leg have relatively little meat but the tendons, fat and connective tissue around the joints are flavorful thickeners for the sauce. It's that rich, sticky sauce which leads to hergma's reputation as a favorite comfort food among many Moroccans.More wheat can be substituted for the chickpeas or vice-versa. A cheesecloth is recommended for wrapping the wheat. Remember to soak chickpeas overnight.Note that the cooking time is for a pressure cooker. Conventional simmering requires all-day or overnight cooking. 

Prep Time35 minutes minsCook Time4 hours hrs 30 minutes minsTotal Time5 hours hrs 5 minutes mins

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 871kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Equipmentpressure cookercheeseclothdutch oven
Ingredients2 calves' feet, cut into several pieces by the butcher (or 8 lamb feet, cut in half3/4 cup dried chickpeas1 1/2 cups wheat berries (wheat kernels)1/4 cup dark golden raisins2 large onions, chopped1 large onion,  sliced6 to 8 cloves garlic, finely chopped2 or 3 small pieces of cinnamon stick or bark4 tsp salt3 tsp ground ginger2 tsp black pepper1 1/2 tsp paprika1 tsp saffron threads, crumbled1 tsp turmeric1 tsp smen, or to taste1/2  cup olive oilUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsAhead of time, place the chickpeas in a bowl and cover generously with cold water. Leave to soak overnight or for at least 8 hours.When ready to cook, wash the trotters then make sure they're free of bone fragments and stray pieces of hair, which should already have been charred and scraped off. Wash again and drain. (Discard the hooves; they won't be used.)Place the trotters in a pressure cooker or deep, heavy-bottomed pot. Add the onions, garlic, spices and oil. Add enough water to just cover the ingredients, then bring the liquids to a simmer.Cover and cook the trotters with medium pressure for 1 1/2 hours (or simmer over medium-low heat for 3 hours). After this time, interrupt the cooking to stir and taste for seasoning, adding more salt if desired.Drain the chickpeas and them to the pot. Drain the wheat berries, tie them in a cheesecloth, and add them to the pot as well. (The cheesecloth is not mandatory but it makes for easy removal and nicer presentation of the wheat berries at serving time.) Cover and cook with medium pressure for 2 1/2 hours (or simmer for 5 hours), until the wheat is tender. (You can open the cheesecloth to sample a kernel, then close and return the wrapped wheat to the pot.) During this time, keep an eye on the liquids, adding water if necessary to avoid burning the ingredients.When the wheat is tender, drain the raisins and add them to the sauce. Cover and continue simmering without pressure until the liquids have reduced to a very thick sauce. Remove from the heat and serve warm.To serve, arrange the trotters on a platter and the sauce, chickpeas and raisins all around. Spread the wheat berries over the trotters as a garnish. 
Notes
Hergma can be made in advance as it will keep in the fridge for several days and several months in the freezer.
Consider freezing the hergma in small portions rather than as a single batch; this works well when everyone in the family doesn't enjoy it.
Tradition is to gather round and eat communally from the serving platter, using pieces of bread for scooping everything up. 
Moroccans always prefer the flavor and texture of dried chickpeas over canned. However, if you do opt for canned, wait until the final stage of cooking to add them, allowing only enough time to heat them through and absorb some flavor from the sauce.

 

Calories: 871kcal | Carbohydrates: 59g | Protein: 39g | Fat: 54g | Saturated Fat: 3g | Cholesterol: 1mg | Sodium: 1566mg | Potassium: 354mg | Fiber: 12g | Sugar: 5g | Vitamin A: 320IU | Vitamin C: 6mg | Calcium: 75mg | Iron: 4mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!