




4.91 from 11 votes

Ghoriba Bahla Recipe - Moroccan Shortbread Cookies

Ghoriba Bahla ("silly" cookie) is a traditional Moroccan shortbread cookie that's especially delicious with the nutty additions of sesame and almonds. The cracks on the surface of the cookies are desirable and what distinguish bahla from other Moroccan shortbread cookies. 

Prep Time1 hour hrCook Time25 minutes minsToast the Sesame and Almonds30 minutes minsTotal Time1 hour hr 55 minutes mins

Course: CookiesCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 40 cookies, approx.
Calories: 115kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
EquipmentStand mixerparchment paperbaking sheets
Ingredients2/3 cup granulated sugar1/2 cup unsalted butter, softened1/2 cup vegetable oil1/4 cup unhulled sesame seeds toasted1/4 cup whole blanched almonds, toasted then ground1 teaspoon vanilla (or 2 teaspoons vanilla sugar1/8 teaspoon salt4 cups flour approximately1 1/2 teaspoons baking powderUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsAhead of Time - Prep the Sesame and AlmondsToast the unhulled sesame seeds. Preheat your oven to 400° F (200° C). Spread the sesame seeds in a single layer on a baking sheet and place in the preheated oven for about 10 minutes. Let cool before using.Toast (or fry) the blanched almonds, then grind. To toast, spread the blanched almonds on a baking sheet and place in a 350° F (180° C) oven for about 15 to 20 minutes, until pale golden. (To fry, heat a shallow layer of vegetable oil in a small pan over medium heat; add the almonds and stir constantly until golden, then transfer to a paper towel lined plate.)When the almonds are cool, coarsely grind them. Make the Cookie DoughIn a large bowl, combine the sugar, butter and oil. Mix well.Stir in the ground almonds, toasted sesame seeds, vanilla sugar, and salt.Add half of the flour and all of the baking powder then mix until well-combined. Use your hands to work in as much of the remaining flour as needed to get a very crumbly, dry mixture.Use a stand mixer and paddle attachment to mix the dough on the lowest speed for 10 minutes, or knead by hand for 20 minutes, to make a dough that clumps together but is not so moist as to form one uniform mass. If the dough seems to be too moist, add a little flour. Conversely, if the dough remains too dry and crumbly to easily pack into a ball, then add a tablespoon or two of oil. In either case, allow ample mixing time to blend any additions fully throughout the doughShape and Bake the CookiesPreheat your oven to 338° F (170° C). If you don't have a special ghoriba mold, line a regular baking sheet with parchment paper. There is no need to grease the ghoriba mold.Take a small portion of dough and squeeze it in your hand to compress it and make it easy to mold. Shape it into a 1 1/2" (3.5 cm) ball, then flatten the ball to a smooth disc shape. Correct any cracked edges.Gently press the shaped dough onto the molded pan or place the disc on your prepared pan. Repeat with the remaining dough. Plan to bake the cookies in batches, one pan at a time.Place the baking rack to its lowest position and turn on the broiler. Bake the cookies for 5 or 6 minutes, then turn off the broiler and move the cookies to the upper third of the oven. Continue baking for another 15 minutes, or until the cookies are lightly colored with crackled tops. Remove the cookies from the oven and allow them to cool a few minutes on the pan. Transfer them to a rack to cool completely before storing in an airtight container with wax paper or plastic between layers.
Notes
Instead of using both the oven + broiler method above, you can simply bake the cookies at 400° F (200° C) in the upper third of the oven for about 15 to 20 minutes, or until lightly colored with cracked tops. The cracks won't be quite as deep but it's easier and the result is still good!
If time allows, you can test bake a few cookies using one or both methods to see how your dough reacts in your oven. My current oven, for example, heats differently than other ovens I've had, requiring that I bake cakes, cookies and breads in the upper third of the oven rather in the middle. 
How dark to make the cookies is up to you. Traditionally, most shortbread recipes require baking until set and barely colored, but many Moroccans consider pale cookies to be under baked. These should be baked long enough to at least achieve a dry crumb, but many cooks prefer to continue baking to a golden hue. Take care not to burn them.
If using the special ghoriba mold, you can shape the dough into flatter discs to achieve a more dramatic hollowed-out bottom. You will need to be extra careful to avoid cracked edges, though.


Serving: 1cookie | Calories: 115kcal | Carbohydrates: 14g | Protein: 2g | Fat: 6g | Saturated Fat: 4g | Cholesterol: 6mg | Sodium: 8mg | Potassium: 37mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 4g | Vitamin A: 71IU | Calcium: 20mg | Iron: 1mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!