




5 from 1 vote

Moroccan Lamb or Calf Brain in Chermoula - El Mokh Mchermel

Mokh Mchermel is a traditional Moroccan dish of brains served in a rich, reduced sauce. It's extra delicious when garnished with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil.A variation of this dish can be made by omitting the tomatoes and adding the thinly sliced rind of a preserved lemon. Adjust the salt accordingly as the preserved lemon is salty.

Prep Time10 minutes minsCook Time30 minutes minsMarinating1 hour hrTotal Time1 hour hr 40 minutes mins

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 136kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients2 sheep brains (or 1 calf brain)1 tsp saltFor the sauce2 cloves garlic,  peeled and grated 3 tbsp fresh cilantro, finely chopped1/2 tsp salt, or to taste1 tsp sweet paprika1/2 tsp ground cumin1/8 tsp cayenne, or to taste2 to 4 medium-sized tomatoes,  seeded, peeled and pulp grated or finely chopped1 tbsp tomato paste (optional)3 tbsp olive oil1 cup water1 tbsp white vinegarUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsPreparing the BrainCover the brains with boiling water mixed with salt for a couple of minutes then drain and pat dry. Unlike sheep's brain, the veal or calf brain needs the outer transparent membrane delicately peeled off. This hot bath will make this step easy.Discard any coagulated bits of blood as well as large veins. Rinse thoroughly.Cut each sheep brain into 4 pieces (or cut a calf brain into 6 pieces).Marinating the Brain (optional)Marinating the brain is optional. If you have time to allow for this step, mix half of the herbs and spices with a few tablespoons of water. Delicately coat the brain pieces with the marinade. Cover with plastic and place in the fridge from 1 to 12 hours.Cooking the Brain In a pot or tagine over medium-low heat, add the water, tomatoes, tomato paste, oil, spices and garlic. Simmer for 10 to 15 minutes.Add the cilantro and pieces of brain to the sauce; stir delicately to ensure all sides have made contact with the sauce. Add a bit of water if you notice there isn't enough liquid to cover the brain. Cover and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes over medium heat; the sauce should have reduced and thickened by then.Add the vinegar just a few minutes before you turn off the heat. You may also add a bit of mild red harissa to the sauce while its cooking. Usually the brain is served with a generous drizzle of extra virgin olive oil but the recipe here can be served as-is for a lighter version. Add olive oil at your discretion.To enjoy this side dish at its best, serve it room temperature or cold although some also serve it warm. The brain absorbs even more flavors from the sauce once cooled.The sheep or calf brain is better served the same day or within 48 hours.
Notes
The quantity of tomatoes listed in the recipe depends on how you want your sauce. Using more tomatoes for a richer sauce is perfectly in line with the traditional recipe. However, you need to adjust the seasoning accordingly.
Replacing freshly grated or chopped tomato pulp with good tinned plum tomatoes is perfectly acceptable though some brands do require the addition of a pinch of sugar to adjust their acidity.
You can crack some eggs on top and poach them in the sauce or scramble them just before serving. It would make a good main dish in this case and it goes really well served with Moroccan bread or baguette and a good mint tea.

 

Calories: 136kcal | Carbohydrates: 2g | Protein: 5g | Fat: 11g | Saturated Fat: 2g | Cholesterol: 676mg | Sodium: 663mg | Potassium: 131mg | Sugar: 1g | Vitamin A: 575IU | Vitamin C: 17.7mg | Calcium: 11mg | Iron: 1.3mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!