




4.49 from 58 votes

Moroccan Kefta Kebab Recipe

Traditional Moroccan recipe for seasoned kefta, a ground beef or lamb mixture used to make grilled Kefta Kebabs. The same base recipe can be used for Moroccan meatballs and other Moroccan kefta dishes. Allow extra time for preheating your grill or oven.

Prep Time20 minutes minsCook Time10 minutes minsTotal Time30 minutes mins

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 4 servings
Calories: 489kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients1 lb. finely ground beef or lamb or a mix of the two4 to 5 oz. beef or lamb suet (recommended for classic flavor and texture)1 medium onion finely chopped or grated1/4  cup chopped fresh parsley1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro1 tbsp chopped fresh mint leaves (optional; great with lamb)2 tsp sweet paprika1 tsp ground cumin1 tsp  salt1/4 tsp black pepper1 tsp ground cinnamon (optional)1 tsp ground ginger (optional)1 tsp ground turmeric (optional)1/2 tsp ras el hanout (optional)1/4 tsp cayenne pepper (optional)US Customary - Metric
InstructionsIn a large bowl, combine the meat with the herbs and spices. Knead by hand for a minute or two to ensure the seasoning is evenly distributed.Shape the kefta into small sausage-like logs. Arrange the logs in a grill basket or thread and mold them onto skewers. Grill the kebabs over medium-hot coals several minutes per side or until evenly browned and cooked through but still juicy. Moroccan preference is for little to no pink so watch carefully to avoid avoid drying out the meat.Alternatively, the kefta can be baked in the oven. Preheat the oven to 350° F (180° C). Arrange the shaped meat on a rack set over a pan and bake until browned and cooked through, approximately 15 to 20 minutes. Time will depending on how thick the kefta was shaped. Wrap the cooked kebabs in foil to hold warm until serving.
Notes
If you don't like red meat, try using ground chicken or turkey instead.
You can use a stand mixer to incorporate the spices and herbs into the meat. Use a paddle attachment and mix on low speed just until the kefta is thoroughly combined.
Dipping your hands in a little water will help prevent the kefta from sticking to your hands while shaping it.
If shaping the kefta into patties, try making them into thin, petite rounds. They'll cook quickly in a pan and can be enjoyed in sandwiches in the same manner as kefta kebabs.
If you want to use the kefta to make Moroccan seasoned hamburgers, I suggest reducing spices by half, particularly if you use typical condiments such as mayonnaise, ketchup and mustard.

 

Calories: 489kcal | Carbohydrates: 6g | Protein: 25g | Fat: 39g | Saturated Fat: 19g | Cholesterol: 92mg | Sodium: 663mg | Potassium: 564mg | Fiber: 2g | Sugar: 1g | Vitamin A: 2100IU | Vitamin C: 7.6mg | Calcium: 93mg | Iron: 4.8mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!