




5 from 12 votes

Moroccan Kefta Tagine with Lemon and Saffron Butter Sauce

Serve these tasty marble-sized meatballs and their saffron flavored sauce with bread for scooping everything up, or deviate from Moroccan tradition and enjoy them on a bed of mashed potatoes.

Prep Time25 minutes minsCook Time1 hour hrTotal Time1 hour hr 25 minutes mins

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 4 servings
Calories: 329kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
IngredientsFor the Moroccan Meatballs1 lb finely ground beef, lamb or turkey1 small onion, grated or very finely chopped2 tbsp chopped fresh parsley2 tbsp chopped fresh cilantro2 tsp ground cumin1 tsp paprika3/4 tsp salt, or to taste1/2 tsp cinnamon1/2 tsp cayenne pepperFor the Butter Sauce3 to 4  tbsp butter1  medium onion, grated1/4 cup chopped cilantro and/or parsley1/2 tsp saffron threads,  crumbled1/2 tsp ginger1/2 tsp paprika1/2 tsp cumin1/2 tsp tumeric1/4 tsp black peppersmall 2" to 3" piece of cinnamon stick,  optional1/2 cup hot chicken or beef brothsalt to taste1 tbsp fresh lemon juice,  or more to tasteadditional parsley,  for garnishUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsMake the Kefta and Shape the MeatballsIn a large bowl (or on a large plate or tray), combine the ground meat with the onion, herbs and spices. Use your hands to knead the mixture for 2 or 3 minutes to ensure that the spices are evenly distributed.Take small portions of the kefta mixture and roll tiny meatballs about the size of cherries. Cover the meatballs and set them aside while you make the sauce. (Note: The meatballs may be prepared one day in advance and refrigerated until needed.)Make the Sauce and Cook the MeatballsPlace a skillet or medium- to large-sized tagine over medium-low heat. (A diffuser is necessary when using a tagine on electric stove tops and recommended for other heat sources as well.) Add the butter, the onions, the spices and the cinnamon stick. Allow the mixture to reach a simmer, then cover and cook for 10 minutes. Add the broth and salt; cover and continue simmering for another 10 minutes. Add the meatballs. Cover and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes, or until the meatballs are cooked through. Do not overcook the meatballs or they will be tough.Add lemon juice to taste and simmer for another minute or two. Remove the tagine or skillet from the heat.When ready to serve, garnish the meatballs with fresh parsley. You can serve the meatballs directly from a tagine; if prepared in a skillet, transfer the meatballs to a serving dish. The meatballs are traditionally eaten by hand, using pieces of Moroccan bread in lieu of a utensil.

Calories: 329kcal | Carbohydrates: 7g | Protein: 21g | Fat: 23g | Saturated Fat: 8g | Cholesterol: 80mg | Sodium: 527mg | Potassium: 486mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 2g | Vitamin A: 1380IU | Vitamin C: 8.4mg | Calcium: 72mg | Iron: 4mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!