




5 from 3 votes

Moroccan Mallow Salad - Khoubiza or Bakkoula

Khoubiza or bakkoula is a tangy and delious salad made by sauteing steamed mallow with garlic, spices, and preserved lemon. Chopped or whole olives are sometimes added.

Prep Time15 minutes minsCook Time30 minutes minsTotal Time45 minutes mins

Course: SaladCuisine: MoroccanDiet: Halal, Vegan
 Yield: 4 servings
Calories: 273kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
EquipmentLarge steamerLarge frying pan or skillet
Ingredients½ pound mallow leaves and stems (about 8 cups, packed)½ cup olive oil½ cup chopped parsley and/or cilantro (I use a mix)4 cloves garlic, pressed or finely chopped or more to taste1½ teaspoons paprika1½ teaspoons cumin¼ teaspoon salt or more to taste¼ teaspoon cayenne pepper or to taste (optional)2 tablespoons lemon juice or to taste1 preserved lemon pulp choppedpreserved lemon rind for garnish1 handful red olives for garnish
InstructionsWash, Chop and Steam the MallowIn a large bowl or sink full of water, wash the mallow thoroughly. Rinse and drain well. Chop the leaves and stems and place into a steamer basket set over simmering water. It's okay if the greens are heaped above the rim.Steam the mallow for 15-20 minutes or until the mallow is tender. It will greatly reduce in bulk and turn darker in color.½ pound mallow leaves and stemsSqueeze or press out any extra water from the steamed mallow. You cand do this directly in the steamer basket using a wooden spoon or spatula to press the mallow against the sides of the basket.  Saute the Steamed MallowWhile the mallow is steaming, place the olive oil, garlic, parsley, cilantro, and spices in a large skillet. Saute over medium or medium-low for several minutes, until the herbs are wilted and the garlic is fragrant.  Be careful not to burn the garlic. Remove from the heat until the mallow is ready.½ cup olive oil, ½ cup chopped parsley and/or cilantro, 4 cloves garlic, pressed or finely chopped, 1½ teaspoons paprika, 1½ teaspoons cumin, ¼ teaspoon salt, ¼ teaspoon cayenne pepperAdd the mallow to the skillet along with the chopped preserved lemon pulp, and lemon juice. Saute over medium heat for 5 to 10 minutes, until the flavors are well combined.2 tablespoons lemon juice, 1 preserved lemon pulpTaste and adjust seasoning or lemon juice. Serve warm or at room temperature, garnishing with the whole olives and preserved lemon rind.1 handful red olives, preserved lemon rind
NotesTIPS AND VARIATIONS

This salad will still be tasty if you don't have preserved lemon on hand. Just use a little more lemon juice to taste to give it a classic lemony, tangy flavor.
To spice up the salad, add roasted, chopped chili pepper or a spoonful of harissa.
Whole chili peppers can be sauteed with the greens and then served as a garnish and condiment.
The same base recipe works with other greens such as spinach, kale, and purslane; adjust the steaming time accordingly.
I find that bits of mallow or other greens tend to stick to the interior of stainless steel steamers; those bits become difficult to wash off as the steamer basket cools. To make cleanup easier, have a deep bowl of hot water ready in the sink to soak the basket until you can get to it. Or just plan to immediately wash the steamer with hot, soapy water as soon as you've emptied it. 


Calories: 273kcal | Carbohydrates: 5g | Protein: 2g | Fat: 28g | Saturated Fat: 4g | Polyunsaturated Fat: 3g | Monounsaturated Fat: 20g | Sodium: 275mg | Potassium: 413mg | Fiber: 2g | Sugar: 1g | Vitamin A: 6400IU | Vitamin C: 30mg | Calcium: 84mg | Iron: 3mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!