




4.71 from 44 votes

Moroccan Loubia Recipe - Stewed White Beans

Easy, zesty and delicious! This authentic Moroccan recipe for loubia (stewed white beans) is generously seasoned with Moroccan spices and herbs. Serve as a side or main dish with Moroccan bread on the side for dipping into all that goodness.Note that the beans should be quite saucy at serving time. The beans will continue to absorb liquid as they sit, so allow for this if preparing the beans in advance for later serving.Remember to soak the beans overnight, or use a quick soak method before proceeding. Allow double the cooking time if using a conventional pot rather than a pressure cooker.

Prep Time10 minutes minsCook Time50 minutes minsTotal Time1 hour hr

Course: Main Course, Side DishCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 438kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Equipmentpressure cookerdutch ovenPot or Dutch Oven
Ingredients1 lb. beef or lamb, on the bone; or 1 cup dried meat (optional)1 lb. dry white haricot (navy) or Cannellini beans,  soaked overnight then drained3 ripe tomatoes, grated1 medium onion, grated5 cloves of garlic, finely chopped or pressed3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley3 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro1 tablespoon salt1 tablespoon paprika1 tablespoon cumin2 teaspoons ginger1/4 teaspoon turmeric (optional)1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper  or fresh chili peppers, to taste (optional)1/2 cup olive oilUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsOptional Step If Using Fresh MeatIf preparing the white beans with lamb or beef, start by browning the meat in the olive oil over medium heat. (Dried or preserved meat needs no browning.) Then proceed with one of the cooking methods below.Pressure Cooker MethodPlace all ingredients in a pressure cooker and stir to combine.Add 2 quarts (about 2 liters) of water and bring the liquids to a boil over high heat.Cover, bring to pressure, then reduce heat to medium. Continue cooking with pressure for 40 minutes, or until the beans are tender.If the beans are still fully submerged in sauce, reduce the liquids by simmering uncovered until the sauce is thick and not watery, but still quite ample.Taste and adjust seasoning, if needed. Serve warm.Conventional Pot MethodMix all ingredients in a large (6 qt.), heavy-bottomed pot or Dutch oven. Add 2 quarts of water (about 2 liters) and bring to a rapid simmer.Cover and continue simmering the beans over medium heat for about 1 1/2 hours, or until the beans are cooked to desired tenderness and the sauce is thick and no longer watery.During cooking, stir occasionally and add a little water if the liquids reduce before the beans have fully cooked. Taste and adjust the seasoning. Serve warm. 
Notes
Turmeric is not a traditional ingredient in Moroccan stewed white beans, but I like to add it for color as well as for the health benefits.
Serve with a spoon or eat by hand by scooping up beans and sauce with crusty bread.
Refrigerate leftovers once the beans have cooled completely.
Reheat leftover beans gently over medium-low to medium heat, adding a little water if necessary.

 

Calories: 438kcal | Carbohydrates: 26g | Protein: 28g | Fat: 24g | Saturated Fat: 4g | Cholesterol: 58mg | Sodium: 1197mg | Potassium: 732mg | Fiber: 9g | Sugar: 2g | Vitamin A: 1915IU | Vitamin C: 13.9mg | Calcium: 110mg | Iron: 5.3mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!