




4.74 from 15 votes

Moroccan Zaalouk Recipe

To make this popular Moroccan side or salad, fresh tomatoes and eggplants are seasoned with a robust quantity of herbs, garlic, olive oil, and spices then cooked to a dip-like consistency.Roasting the eggplants is optional but recommended for a layer of smoky flavor. It's my preferred method.Don't worry about exact measures when making zaalouk. The ratio of tomatoes to eggplant can be adjusted according to what you have on hand or what you prefer in terms of flavor. Seasoning is also very flexible and more or less olive oil is also fine.Zaalouk is traditionally enjoyed as a dip with Moroccan bread (khobz). If you prefer to eat with a fork or want to make enough to have leftovers for another meal, you may want to increase the recipe by half. Serve zaalouk warm, cold, or at room temperature.

Prep Time20 minutes minsCook Time40 minutes minsTotal Time1 hour hr

Course: Salad, Side DishCuisine: MoroccanDiet: Gluten Free, Halal, Kosher, Vegan, Vegetarian
 Yield: 4 servings
Calories: 206kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Equipmentbaking sheetsdeep skilletserrated tomato peeleraluminum foil
Ingredients2 large eggplants or 3 medium2 medium or large tomatoes or more to taste6 cloves garlic, pressed or finely chopped or to taste2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley approx.2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro approx.1 teaspoon salt or to taste2 teaspoons paprika or to taste2 teaspoons cumin or to taste4 tablespoons olive oil approx.; no need to measureOptional cayenne pepper or whole chili peppers optional; to tastelemon juice or small wedge of lemon optional; to tastechopped parsley or cilantro optional; for garnisholive oil optional; to drizzle on top as garnish
InstructionsRoasted Eggplant MethodTrim the stems from the eggplants and cut them in half lengthwise. Arrange the eggplant halves skin side up on a baking sheet lined with aluminum foil and place under the broiler as close to the flame or heating element as possible.Roast the eggplants for about 20 to 25 minutes, or until the skins are charred and puckered with sections that crumble or crack like burnt paper when pressed. The flesh will be very soft.While the eggplant is roasting, peel, seed, and chop the tomatoes.Transfer the chopped tomatoes to a skillet along with the olive oil, garlic, parsley, cilantro, and spices. The optional cayenne and whole chili peppers can be added at this time as well.Cook the tomato mixture over medium heat, stirring frequently, until the tomatoes break down and a rich tomato sauce forms. This usually takes 10 to 20 minutes, depending on how soft the tomatoes were and how many you used.When the eggplants are roasted, remove them from the oven. When cool enough to handle, use a large spoon to scoop the flesh from the skin. Discard the skin.Add the eggplant flesh to the tomato mixture, stirring to combine. Use the back of a spoon or a fork to mash any firm bits of eggplant. If you want to add the optional lemon juice or a very small wedge of lemon, you can do so at this time.Cook the zaalouk for five to ten minutes to allow the flavors to blend, or longer if you want to reduce the salad to a drier, pastier consistency. Taste and adjust seasoning then remove from the heat.One-Pot MethodPeel, seed, and chop the tomatoes. Place them in a large deep skillet or large pot along with the olive oil, spices, garlic, and herbs. Stir to combine.Trim the stems from the eggplants and peel them. Some strips of skin can be left intact if you like a colorful zaalouk.Finely chop the peeled eggplants and add them to the skillet or pot along with 1/4 to 1/3 cup of water.  If your pan is quite full, don't worry about stirring the eggplant into the tomato mixture just yet.Cover and cook the tomato mixture and eggplants over medium heat for about 10 to 15 minutes, or until the chopped eggplant has begun to soften and reduce in volume. Stir to combine all the ingredients well. Add the optional chili peppers or cayenne, if using, and a little more water if you found that the ingredients were sticking to the bottom of the pan.Cover and continue cooking for another 15 to 20 minutes, or until the eggplant and tomatoes are soft enough to mash.At this point, you can add the optional lemon juice or lemon wedge if using.Continue cooking the zaalouk uncovered to reduce the liquids, scraping the bottom of the pan and stirring frequently. Adjust the heat if necessary to avoid burning the zaalouk.If you want a puree-like consistency, mash the eggplants and tomatoes while the liquids reduce. If you prefer a chunky texture, stir without mashing.When the zaalouk has reduced to a consistency you like, taste and adjust seasoning then remove from the heat.Serving and Storing ZaaloukZaalouk can be served warm, cold, or at room temperature. Garnish as desired with fresh parsley or cilantro and/or a drizzle of good olive oil.Zaalouk will keep for several days in the fridge or two to three months in the freezer.If freezing, allow the zaalouk to thaw before reheating in a pan.  Reduce any excess liquids and adjust the seasoning if needed.  
Notes
Soft, ripe tomatoes are preferred for making zaalouk. Firmer tomatoes tend not to break down into a sauce as easily and might also be more acidic.
If you like a red, saucy zaalouk, you can use one or two additional tomatoes or add a spoonful of tomato paste to the ingredients. The more tomatoes you use, the more you may want to increase seasoning.
I prefer to use a deep, large skillet when making zaalouk because the extra surface area allows for a quicker reduction of liquids.
Roasted garlic is not used traditionally in zaalouk, but I sometimes add it. An easy way to roast the garlic along with the eggplant is to make an incision in the flesh of the eggplant halves and insert a peeled clove of garlic. When the eggplants have finished roasting, remove the garlic cloves and mash them before adding them to the zaalouk mixture.


Serving: 1serving | Calories: 206kcal | Carbohydrates: 18g | Protein: 3g | Fat: 15g | Saturated Fat: 2g | Sodium: 593mg | Potassium: 735mg | Fiber: 8g | Sugar: 10g | Vitamin A: 1176IU | Vitamin C: 15mg | Calcium: 51mg | Iron: 2mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!