




4.67 from 6 votes

Moroccan Semolina Cookies with Anise, Raisins and Sesame - Baked Harcha

These crunchy cookies take their name from harcha, a stove top semolina bread. In Morocco you might find the baked harcha for sale in snack shops, where they're called harcha dyal ferran or harcha au four.

Prep Time30 minutes minsCook Time25 minutes minsTotal Time55 minutes mins

Course: CookiesCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 30 cookies (2")
Calories: 121kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Equipmentlarge mixing bowlbaking sheetsparchment paper
IngredientsFor the Dough2 cups fine semolina1/2 cup all purpose flour1/2 cup granulated sugar3 teaspoons baking powder1/8 teaspoon salt2 teaspoons sesame seeds1 teaspoon anise seeds1/4 cup raisins2 teaspoons vanilla2 eggs2/3 cup melted butter1/2 cup milk approx.For the Garnish4 tablespoons semolina (coarse or fine)3 tablespoons granulated sugar
InstructionsPreheat your oven to 338° F (170° C). Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.Make the Cookie DoughMeasure out your semolina and all purpose flour into a large bowl. Add the sugar, baking powder, salt, sesame seeds, anise, and raisins. Stir to combine.Add the vanilla, eggs, butter and milk. Stir to thoroughly to blend the wet ingredients into the dry until a wet, sandy-textured dough forms. If the dough is dry, mix in a little more milk (you want the dough to be almost too moist to shape).Leave the dough to rest and absorb some of the liquid for about 10 minutes, or until you can easily roll balls from the dough.Shape and Bake the CookiesPrepare the garnish by combining the semolina and sugar in a small bowl.Shape portions the dough into smooth balls about 2" (5 cm) in diameter (Or, shape the balls quite large, about the size of a small mandarin orange.) Roll the balls in the sugar and semolina garnish then place on the prepared baking sheets, spaced two to three inches apart. Bake the harcha for about 25 minutes, or until golden. (They can be made darker than the photo, but I prefer them lighter in color as shown.)Allow the cookies to set briefly before transferring them to a rack to cool. Serving and Storing the CookiesServe the semolina cookies warm or at room temperature. (Note: I think the flavor is better the next day.)Once completely cooled, the cookies should be stored in an airtight container, where they will keep at room temperature for up to a week or in the freezer for several months. 

Serving: 1cookie | Calories: 121kcal | Carbohydrates: 17g | Protein: 2g | Fat: 5g | Saturated Fat: 3g | Cholesterol: 22mg | Sodium: 53mg | Potassium: 127mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 5g | Vitamin A: 148IU | Vitamin C: 1mg | Calcium: 47mg | Iron: 1mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!