




4.78 from 27 votes

Moroccan Ghoribas with Honey - Ghoriba Dyal 'Asal

An easy-to-make Moroccan cookie with cake-like texture and lemon or orange zest flavor.

Prep Time20 minutes minsCook Time15 minutes minsTotal Time35 minutes mins

Course: Cookies, Tea TimeCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 50 1.5" (3.8 cm) cookies
Calories: 49kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients2 whole eggs1 egg white (reserve the yolk)1/3 cup sugar (1/2 tea glass)1/3 cup vegetable oil or melted butter (1/2 tea glass)1 tsp vanilla (or 1 sachet vanilla sugar)3 tbsp honey, warmed but not hot2 2/3 c flour, plus additional if necessary (4 tea glasses2 tsp baking powderpinch of saltzest of 1 or 2 lemons (or 1 orange)1 egg yolk, lightly beaten (for egg wash)US Customary - Metric
InstructionsMake the DoughWith an electric mixer or by hand, beat together the whole eggs, egg white and sugar until thick.Beat in the oil and vanilla, then stir in the warm honey.Add the flour, baking powder, salt and lemon zest. Stir to blend the dry ingredients into the wet, just until you form a soft dough that can easily be molded into balls. Do not over mix. Add a little more flour if necessary, but avoid making the dough stiff.Shape and Bake the CookiesPreheat your oven to 350° F (180° C). Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.Break off small portions of dough and shape into small 1 1/4 balls. (Squeezing the portions of dough back and forth in the palm of your hand before shaping will help smooth the dough so that the baked cookies look nicer.) Place the balls of dough about 2 inches (5 cm) apart on the prepared baking sheets and brush lightly with the beaten egg yolk.Bake in the preheated oven for 12 to 15 minutes, or until a rich golden color. Transfer the cookies to a rack to cool.Once completely cooled, store the cookies in an airtight container. They'll stay fresh at room temperature for several days or in the freezer for up to two months.

Serving: 1cookie | Calories: 49kcal | Carbohydrates: 7g | Fat: 1g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Cholesterol: 6mg | Sodium: 3mg | Potassium: 30mg | Sugar: 2g | Vitamin A: 10IU | Calcium: 11mg | Iron: 0.4mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!