




4.67 from 6 votes

Moroccan Chicken with Preserved Lemon and Olives - D'jaj M'qualli b' Daghmira

Moroccan Chicken with Preserved Lemons and Olives is a national favorite, especially when topped with the iconic onion sauce called daghmira. Fragrant spices along with fresh herbs, preserved lemons, and olives pair nicely with the chicken and sauce. It all comes together in the end in a delightful way, making each step worth the wait.This recipe is for a festive m'qualli version with a good daghmira topping and garnished with preserved lemon rinds and purple or green olives. There are shortcuts to make a quick thick sauce but the best one is made as shown below.Please take time to read through the entire recipe ahead of time as it explains different approaches for making the daghmira.

Prep Time15 minutes minsCook Time1 hour hr 15 minutes minsMarinating Time1 hour hrTotal Time2 hours hrs 30 minutes mins

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 4 servings
Calories: 1001kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
EquipmentPot or Dutch Oven
IngredientsFor the chicken and the marinade3.3 lb chicken with its giblets, previously brined1/2 tsp salta generous pinch of saffron threads1 tsp ground ginger1 tsp ground turmeric1/2 tsp  ground black/white pepper1 tsp  smen1 tbsp chopped coriander and parsleyFor the cooking sauce1/4 cup olive and vegetable oil, mixed3 medium-size onions yellow, white or red varieties, finely chopped (see instruction in the daghmira section below)1 tsp  turmeric2/3 tsp salt2  garlic cloves crushed or grated3 or 4 chicken livers (optional)1 tsp ground ginger1/2 preserved lemon, pulp onlyFor garnishing1/4 cup purple or green olives finest quality1 preserved lemon rind, pulp removedUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsMarinating and preppingMake the marinade: In a small glass, top the saffron threads with 1/4 cup of hot water and set aside for about 10 min. Stir in salt, turmeric, ginger pepper and smen.Cut the chicken into pieces and transfer them a large bowl. Add the marinade, turning and rubbing each piece to coat it thoroughly. Cover and let it absorb the spices for a minimum of 1 hour or overnight.Cooking Transfer the chicken and marinade to a deep cooking pot with a heavy bottom (or a tagine). Add the giblets, the finely chopped onions, garlic, and the rest of the spices. Top with 1/4 cup of water. Bring to a simmer for 10 to 15 minutes over medium heat while tossing the meat a few times. You may cover the pot during this step and uncover it to stir.When the water seems to have mostly evaporated and the meat has changed color from all sides, add the oil and enough hot water to cover 2/3 to 3/4 of the chicken.Cover and let simmer until the chicken is cooked through and has become tender to the touch. The liquid should have mostly reduced by now. Regularly check the bottom of the pot to prevent any burning or stickiness.If the chicken has cooked and you are still left with a good amount of liquid, remove the chicken, cover with foil or cling film, and leave on the side while you carry on with the rest of the recipe. Making daghmira There are two ways depending on the type of onions used; this will define when to add most of them during the cooking process. Some onions are more watery then others and tend to melt in a short time; while cooking we hardly need to add water to the dish. Whichever way you go, 1 chopped onion is always cooked with the chicken from the beginning of the cooking.Method I: Cook chicken and all onions at the same time, then fish out the chicken once it becomes tender. Reduce the sauce and keep stirring until you get a silky onion gravy.Method II: Cook chicken with only 1 chopped onion; remove the cooked chicken then add the other 2 chopped onions and cook them in the sauce, When they become tender and cooked through, toss and break them with a spatula until you get a silky onion paste (the daghmira). It will start separating from the oil when ready.Options with chicken liversPar-boil the chicken livers for 10 to 15 minutes and discard the scum. (You may optionally flavor the water with 1/2 tsp of each of the following: chopped garlic, ground pepper, salt, ginger.) Drain the livers, rinse and set aside.Take some of the sauce and cook the livers separately for another 15 min. This is a good idea when you have a mixed table where some don't like them and others do. If you have no picky eaters around, just chuck them in the sauce after you cook the chicken and let them cook as the sauce reduces. Again, you may choose to leave them in one piece. In this case, fish them out and put them on the side, covered as they may darken and dry out in contact with air. But you can also grate them or crush them into the daghmira for a thick and richer consistency.About browning the chickenIn the cooking pot: The traditional way of making this dish requires sauteing or frying (rissoler is the French word that comes to mind) the cooked chicken in the oil that separates from the daghmira. We put the chicken back in the oil over medium heat and turn it until golden brown; the chicken remains moist inside. The word m'qualli takes its name from this method.In the oven: In recent decades, some have moved to browning the chicken in the oven while we work on the daghmira. If you choose this option, just glaze it with some of the oil from the sauce and brown it for 20 minutes at 400 F/200 C, turning it a couple of times to brown it evenly. A whole chicken might take up to 30 min. Garnishing and servingTraditionally, we start by pouring the marqa (sauce) onto the serving plate then we place the chicken then livers and giblets on top. We coat the top of the chicken with daghmira (the onion paste) and garnish with olives and the rinds of preserved lemon. If we choose to serve this dish with fries, we scatter them on top or arrange them around the chicken. If you have used a tagine to cook, you just need to place it directly in the middle of the table as probably the order of chicken and daghmira would be the opposite (daghmira and sauce on the bottom and around while the chicken takes center stage).Always serve this dish warm.
NotesIn some versions of this dish, some of these ingredients are added while cooking the chicken. One or all of them may be added. These quantities are for 1 chicken as mentioned in the recipe:

About 4 tablespoons of chopped coriander and parsley.
1/4 preserved lemon is finely chopped or ground then added to the marinade for the chicken. 
1 or 2 tablespoons of lemon juice are added to the sauce after cooking the chicken and while thickening daghmira. Beware that lemon and salt should be used wisely as they both add saltiness.
About 1/4 cup of purple or green olives, pitted or not (we prefer not). If you buy them tinned, make sure you par-boil them in hot water for 10 min after the water boils as they have more salt in them. As you cook the olives in the sauce, adjust the amount of salt accordingly.


Calories: 1001kcal | Carbohydrates: 10g | Protein: 62g | Fat: 78g | Saturated Fat: 19g | Cholesterol: 369mg | Sodium: 1111mg | Potassium: 915mg | Fiber: 2g | Sugar: 3g | Vitamin A: 355IU | Vitamin C: 6.1mg | Calcium: 53mg | Iron: 3.4mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!