




4.88 from 8 votes

Chebakia Recipe - Moroccan Sesame and Honey Cookies

Halwa Chebakia or Mkharka are flower-shaped sesame cookies that are fried then dipped in honey. Fragrant with anise, cinnamon, saffron and orange flower water, they're a traditional Moroccan favorite in Ramadan and at special occasions.This is my sister-in-law's recipe. I've reduced her normal quantities by half to make the batch more manageable for those cooking alone. 

Prep Time1 hour hr 30 minutes minsCook Time1 hour hrToasting Sesame in Advance30 minutes minsTotal Time3 hours hrs

Course: CookiesCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 65 medium-sized cookies (about 2 kg)
Calories: 133kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
EquipmentRolling PinPastry wheelSkillet and PotSlotted spoon | skimmerStrainer and bowlFood processor
IngredientsFor the Dough7 oz. unhulled sesame seeds about 1.5cups4 cups flour1/2 teaspoon baking powder1/2 teaspoon salt1 1/2 teaspoons ground anise1 1/2  teaspoons ground cinnamo1/2 teaspoon saffron threads, crumbled to a powder1/2 teaspoon turmeric1 pinch mastic or gum arabic drops mix with 1/4 teaspoon sugar and crush to a powder1 extra large egg1/4 cup unsalted butter melted1/4 cup olive oil1/4 cup vinegar1/4 cup orange flower water1 teaspoon yeast dissolved in 1/4 cup warm waterFor Cooking and Garnishing36 oz. honey approx.2 tablespoons orange flower water6 cups vegetable oil, for frying approx.1/2 cup unhulled sesame seeds toasted, for garnishUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsAhead of Time - Clean and Toast the Sesame SeedsUnhulled sesame seeds are used twice in the recipe: first when making the dough and then again as a garnish. Ahead of time, pick through the sesame to remove any debris, then toast them until golden. You can do this in a heavy skillet over medium heat, or by spreading the sesame on a baking pan and toasting in a 400° F (200° C) oven for 10 to 15 minutes. Allow the sesame to cool thoroughly before using or storing in an airtight containerMake the Chebakia DoughGrind 1.5 cups of toasted sesame in a food processor until powdery, then process a little longer until the powder becomes moist enough to pack.In a large bowl, combine the ground sesame with the flour, baking powder, salt and other dry ingredients. Add the yeast mixture and remaining wet ingredients, and mix with your hands to form a stiff but pliable dough similar to Play Dough in texture. Add more flour or more orange flower water if necessary to achieve that consistency.Knead the dough by hand for 7 to 8 minutes or in a mixer with dough hook for 4 to 5 minutes. Divide the dough into four portions, shape each into a smooth mound, and place the dough in a plastic bag to rest for 10 to 15 minutes.Roll Out and Cut the DoughLightly flour your work surface. Take one of the portions of dough, and roll it out to the thickness of a thin piece of cardboard.Use a fluted pastry cutter to cut the dough into rectangles about the size of your palm. In each rectangle, make four evenly spaced cuts that extend almost the length of the rectangle. The resulting rectangles will have five strips of attached dough.Fold the ChebakiaTake a rectangle and thread your right middle finger through alternating strips of dough. With the rectangle draped over your finger in this way, use your left hand to pinch together the outer corners that hang below your fingertip. This will form the center of the flower shape.Continue holding the pinched corners with your left hand, and allow the strips of dough to slide off your right finger while gently turning them inside out around the pinched corner. Pinch the opposite corners closed once the dough is turned inside out. If done correctly, you'll have formed the dough into an elongated flower shape.Place the folded chebakia on a baking sheet or tray. Repeat the process with the remaining rectangles and mounds of dough. As you work, gather your scraps of dough to mold together into a mound, and return them to the bag to rest before you try rolling them out again.Use up all of your dough in this manner. Cover the trays of folded dough with a towel until ready to fry.Cooking the ChebakiaSet up your work area. Begin by heating one inch of oil in a large, deep frying pan over medium-low heat. At the same time, heat the honey almost to boiling in a large pot. When the honey is frothy but not bubbling, add the orange flower water to the honey and turn off the heat. Set out a large bowl with strainer.When the oil is hot, cook the chebakia in batches. Adjust the heat as necessary to slowly fry each batch of chebakia to a medium brown color. This should take about 10 minutes if the oil is the correct temperature. If the oil is too hot, the chebakia will color quickly but the insides will not be cooked crispy.Remove the golden brown chebakia from the oil with a slotted spoon or strainer, and transfer them directly to the hot honey. Gently push down on the chebakia to submerge them in the honey, and allow them to soak for 5 to 7 minutes. They'll turn a rich, glossy amber color as they absorb the honey. In the meantime, you can begin frying another batch of cookies.When the chebakia have finished soaking, remove them from the honey to a strainer or colander, and allow them to drain for only a few minutes. Gently transfer them while hot to a large platter or tray and sprinkle the centers with sesame. As you finish soaking other batches of chebakia in the honey, simply drain and add them to the platter in a mound, garnishing each batch with sesame. Storing ChebakiaAllow the chebakia to cool for several hours before putting them in an airtight container for storage. They'll keep at room temperature for a month or longer and will freeze well for four or five months.
Notes
If your kitchen is very warm, you can reduce the yeast to 1/2 teaspoon to avoid the cookies from becoming overly puffy. 
The longer you soak the chebakia, the more honey they will absorb, and the sweeter and less crispy they become. How long to soak them is a matter of personal preference. However, too short of a soaking will result in pale-colored chebakia that eventually lose their glossy coating.
 If the honey cools and thickens before you've finished making all the cookies, simply reheat it briefly over medium-low heat. This can be done even if some chebakia are in the pot soaking.


Serving: 1cookie | Calories: 133kcal | Carbohydrates: 20g | Protein: 2g | Fat: 6g | Saturated Fat: 3g | Cholesterol: 4mg | Sodium: 20mg | Potassium: 43mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 13g | Vitamin A: 25IU | Vitamin C: 1mg | Calcium: 46mg | Iron: 1mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!