




4.89 from 17 votes

Moroccan Preserved Lemons Recipe

Two simple ingredients and a few minutes of your time are all that's needed to make homemade preserved lemons. In Morocco, we use salt and lemons only and do not traditionally add embellishments such as cinnamon, bay leaves or other spices and herbs. Leave the lemons to cure for a month or longer before using. The longer they sit undisturbed, the more mellow and intense in flavor they become.  See the notes for advice on which lemon varieties to use.

Prep Time10 minutes minsCuring Time30 days dTotal Time7 hours hrs 22 minutes mins

Course: Spices and CondimentsCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 10 preserved lemons
Calories: 20kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients10 fresh lemons, for preserving2 additional lemons, for juicing (if needed)1 cup coarse salt,  preferably kosherEquipment1 clean jar, barely large enough to accommodate 9 or 10 compressed lemonsUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsWash and dry 7 or 8 of the lemons. Partially cut through them from top to bottom to make four attached wedges. Generously fill the crevices of the cut lemons with salt. No need to measure the salt, just use a rough tablespoon or so. Squeeze the salted lemons shut and pack them into the jar. Wedge them in as tightly as possible so they can't move around. Some juice will be released in the process.Close the jar and set aside for a few days. The lemons will slightly soften and more juice will be released. After that time, add as many more salted lemons as will fit into the jar. (This can be repeated in a few days if room allows.) Be sure the lemons are so tight that they won't dislodge as they soften.When the jar is as full as it can be with tightly packed lemons, add some salt to the top of the jar. If all lemons aren't submerged in liquid, top them off with fresh lemon juice. Close the jar and place in a cupboard to cure for at least one month or as long as a year. The longer they sit, the darker and softer they'll become.Once opened, you can store the lemons in the fridge. Rinse off excess brine before adding the preserved lemons to dishes.
Notes
Salt is an approximate amount. You may or may not use all of it. As the lemons macerate, the salt combines with lemon juice to make a brine.
In Morocco, preserved lemons are made with indigenous varieties called doqq and boussera. They are round, thin-skinned and sweeter than everyday lemons.
Outside of Morocco, select Meyer lemons. If they're not in season, then Eureka.
You can settle with whatever variety of lemon is available at the supermarket, but common varieties of lemon will be more sour. Plus, their thicker skin will take longer to cure. 
If using a small Moroccan variety, you can leave the lemons whole. Make a deep slit near each lemon's nipple. Pack into the jar as described above, adding ample salt between layers of lemons. Once no more lemons can be added and the whole lemons are submerged in lemon juice brine, allow them to cure for at least two months before using.


Serving: 1preserved lemon | Calories: 20kcal | Carbohydrates: 1g | Protein: 1g | Fat: 1g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Polyunsaturated Fat: 1g | Sodium: 200mg | Potassium: 10mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 1g | Vitamin A: 1IU | Vitamin C: 3mg | Calcium: 8mg | Iron: 1mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!