




4.86 from 7 votes

Moroccan Petite Shortbreads for Ashura - Krichlate or Fkikssate

Qrishlat, Krichlat, Fqiqssat or Q'iq'ats are tiny sweet shortbread cookies. We mostly associate them with Ashura (Achoura). They are also the perfect nibbles with tea or coffee and the easiest thing to do. They last for weeks when stored in an airtight container. 

Prep Time20 minutes minsCook Time20 minutes minsChilling Time1 hour hrTotal Time1 hour hr 40 minutes mins

Course: CookiesCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 8
Calories: 282kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients2 cups flour1/4 cup sugar1/4 cup vegetable oil2 tbsp butter, melted and cooled2 tbsp orange blossom water1 egg1 pinch of salt1/3 cup sesame seeds, preferably unhulled1 tbsp aniseed1 tsp fennel seeds roughly crushed or in powder1 tsp baking powderUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsUsing a manual whisk, mix all liquid ingredients with the sugar and salt. Fold in the dry ingredients, leaving the flour for last. Mix with a spatula and finish with your hand to make sure it's fully combined.  (It is not ideal to use a food processor in this recipe as you might chop the sesame seeds. However, you can use a regular mixer to combine the ingredients.)Shape long rods of dough about 0.4" (1 cm) thick. You can place them in the fridge for 1 hour or 20 min in the freezer to help with the cutting process or you can start cutting straight away after you formed all the rods.Start with the first dough rod you shaped. Cut small bits no more than 0.2" inch thick and place them on a lined baking tray. You will need to leave about 0.4" between each krichla.Bake at 325° F (160° C) for about 20 minutes or until they look slightly golden.Once completely cooled, store in airtight containers. They will keep for 3 weeks, more or less.
Notes
Use the same recipe to make the famous kaak of Safi.
Depending on the region and the city, krichlate might refer to el gors or Qrachels/Krachels which are enriched and flavored sweet rolls. Fkikssat/Fqiqssat might refer to petite fekkas which requires double baking.

 

Calories: 282kcal | Carbohydrates: 33g | Protein: 5g | Fat: 14g | Saturated Fat: 8g | Cholesterol: 28mg | Sodium: 35mg | Potassium: 150mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 7g | Vitamin A: 120IU | Vitamin C: 0.2mg | Calcium: 112mg | Iron: 3mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!