




5 from 2 votes

Moroccan Semolina Porridge - Assida or l'Assida

Assida, La'assida, L'a'ssida or Taraouit (Chleuh Amazigh) is a thick porridge of semolina which is found across the Arab world. It's traditionally served for breakfast to commemorate the Prophet Mohammad's birth.Assida is an easy, frugal and bland dish with a Bedouin background. It's enjoyed with butter and honey, which greatly elevate the dish. I generally start with 1 part semolina to 4 parts water. Assida is served warm but when it cools down, options exist for using leftovers, from soup to snack to dessert.

Prep Time5 minutes minsCook Time30 minutes minsTotal Time35 minutes mins

Course: BreakfastCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 4 servings
Calories: 434kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients1/2 lb coarse semolina (durum wheat)1 1/2 tsp salt, or to taste4  cups waterFor serving1/2 cup honey1/4 cup  butter  (in cubes, can replace with olive oil)US Customary - Metric
InstructionsTo cook assida, make sure you use a deep saucepan with a thick bottom. The small quantity of semolina plumps up significantly. Bring the water to a boil. You can shorten the time by using a kettle to boil the water then transfer it to the saucepan.Fold in the semolina and stir. Make sure the heat is medium. Keep stirring every now and then and make sure you don't stray too far from the pot.Let the semolina simmer for about 20 minutes. As the porridge thickens, keep stirring and tasting until the semolina has a tender melting bite.Serving AssidaIn a deep serving dish, pour the assida and scatter dots of good honey and cubes of good quality butter all around. Serve some extra on the side.

Calories: 434kcal | Carbohydrates: 76g | Protein: 7g | Fat: 12g | Saturated Fat: 7g | Cholesterol: 30mg | Sodium: 988mg | Potassium: 127mg | Fiber: 2g | Sugar: 34g | Vitamin A: 355IU | Vitamin C: 0.2mg | Calcium: 23mg | Iron: 2.6mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!