




5 from 5 votes

Moroccan Boulfaf Recipe - Liver Brochettes Wrapped in Caul Fat

Boulfaf is one of the ultimate and exclusive Eid Al Adha recipes. Cubes of seared liver are wrapped in a thin layer of sheep's caul fat and then grilled over charcoal. That lacy layer of fat will mostly melt as it grills away, keeping the liver moist and adding incredible flavor. Genius!

Prep Time40 minutes minsCook Time10 minutes minsTotal Time55 minutes mins

Course: Main Course, SnackCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 8 servings
Calories: 718kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients2.2 lbs lamb or beef liver1.1 lbs thin layer of sheep's caul fat, washed and driedSeasonings2  tsp ground cumin, freshly ground is best2 tsp sweet paprika1/2 tsp  cayenne pepper or to taste, optional1 1/2 tsp salt,  or to taste1/2 tsp ground coriander seeds, optionalExtra Seasoning for Serving1 tsp cayenne pepper2 tbsp ground cumin1 tsp  saltUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsPrepare the Grill and LiverPreheat your grill. If you are using charcoal, make sure it burns until the coals are covered with grey ash and the flames have calmed down. This is the way to avoid burning the outer layer while inside hasn't cooked yet.Remove any membrane surrounding the liver. (There is usually more membrane on beef liver than sheep liver.) Wash the liver and pat dry. Slice it into 3/4" (2 cm) thick slabs or steaks. Once the grill is ready, sear the liver on each side for about 2 minutes. This step helps firm up the liver and gives it more flavor.Cut the seared liver into 3/4" (2 cm) cubes and toss them with half of the seasoning. Set aside.Make the BoulfafCut the caul fat into thin strips about 3 1/2" x 3/4" (9 cm x 2 cm). Toss the strips of fat with the remaining seasoning. (optional)Roll a cube of seasoned liver with a single strip of caul fat and thread it onto the skewer, piercing the cube where the strip of caul fat overlaps. Repeat, allowing 6 to 8 wrapped cubes of liver per skewer.Grill the liver brochettes for 3 to 4 minutes per side, or until the fat begins to turn transparent and the liver is fully cooked but tender to the touch. No red juice should be left.Serve the BoulfafServe the boulfaf while hot from the grill with extra seasoning on the side. Mint tea is a traditional accompaniment; some say a hot beverage is necessary for proper digestion.Boulfaf can be eaten directly form the skewer or enjoyed as a sandwich, with or without the caul fat.
Notes
If you find your strips of caul fat are breaking apart while working with them, dip them into a little water. This softens them and makes wrapping easier.
It's preferable to work with thin strips of caul fat as they are easy to fold around the liver. The thicker strips can be cut into squares and inserted between cubes of liver if you are really not lucky in finding thin caul fat.

 

Calories: 718kcal | Carbohydrates: 7g | Protein: 27g | Fat: 64g | Saturated Fat: 34g | Cholesterol: 385mg | Sodium: 823mg | Potassium: 503mg | Fiber: 1g | Vitamin A: 22165IU | Vitamin C: 2.4mg | Calcium: 38mg | Iron: 8.6mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!