




5 from 3 votes

Moroccan Lamb or Beef Kebabs Recipe - Qotban, Qodban or Sfafed

Leg of lamb or filet of steak will yield the most tender results in this recipe for Moroccan Kebab or Qotban. Allow ample time for marinating the meat for best flavor.Suet is traditionally threaded between the cubes of meat for flavor and moisture. If you don't care to eat the fat, you can discard it when removing the cooked meat from the skewers. You can also omit it altogether if you prefer.

Prep Time10 minutes minsCook Time20 minutes minsMarinating2 hours hrsTotal Time2 hours hrs 30 minutes mins

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 617kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients2.2 lbs boneless leg of lamb (or filet of beef), trimmed and cut into 1 inch cubes8 oz beef or lamb fat, preferably suet (kidney fat) cut into 1 inch cubesMarinade2 medium yellow or  white onions,  finely chopped1/2 cup flat leaf parsley, finely chopped1/2 tsp ground black pepper1 1/2 tsp salt or to taste2 tbsp extra virgin olive oilSpice mix for serving1 tbsp  ground cumin1 tsp  salt1  tsp cayenne  or to tasteMix for garnishing1/2 cup flat leaf parsley, leaves only finely chopped1 medium-size onion, finely choppedUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsPreparing the kebabTrim from most of the fat from the meat then cut the meat into cubes of about 1 inch (2.5 cm). Transfer the meat to a large bowl.Cut the suet into cubes about the same size as the meat (1" is a maximum) and add them to the bowl. Fold in the chopped or grated onions and chopped parsley. Season and massage with your hands to make sure everything is well combined.Cover and marinate for at least for 2 hours and up to 8 hours.Threading and grillingWooden skewers will need to be soaked in water before using them while metal ones don't need any special treatment. Thread around 6 cubes of meat onto each skewer, alternating every few pieces with a cube of fat. Make sure you start and end with meat. It's important that you don't leave space between the cubes of meat and fat and it's also important that the meat not be packed too tightly. Hold the skewer with one hand and squeeze the threaded cubes with the other to help spread or compress them as needed Cover and set aside or place in the fridge if you plan to grill them later.Prepare the grill. Make sure the flames have enough time to calm down. Start grilling when you see the charcoal covered with a layer of grey-silver ash. This way you ensure that the meat will be grilled properly.Place the brochettes on the grill and cook for a few minutes, then turn to cook the other side. The meat should be well colored but still juicy according to Moroccan standards. Some like it well done with burnt edges and some like it just medium. ServingServe the lamb or beef brochettes with the garnish mixture along with hot Moroccan tea. Otherwise, green tea with a few mint leaves will do.We enjoy making a sandwich by sprinkling the garnishing mix over the meat, adding a bit of harissa or green olives, and finely chopped tomato and cucumber salad seasoned with cumin, salt and pepper. You could keep the nuggets of fat but it's better to discard them as they've done their job keeping the meat moist and giving it more flavor.
Notes
The same marinade can be used to make Moroccan grilled cutlets (lamb chops) or steaks.
Rumsteak, gigot, filet (French words) are the cuts needed to make Moroccan kebab.
Kebab is always served hot. Slide the cubes of meat (discard the fat if you want) into 1/2 small bread or 1/2 baguette or pita, then sprinkle with cumin, salt, cayenne and press the sandwich between your fingers to release the juices into the bread. The fresh salad can be added in the sandwich; harissa too.
Should you have leftover meat kebab, think about making a quick version of Moroccan kebab maghdour. 

 

Calories: 617kcal | Carbohydrates: 6g | Protein: 35g | Fat: 49g | Saturated Fat: 23g | Cholesterol: 133mg | Sodium: 1089mg | Potassium: 638mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 2g | Vitamin A: 980IU | Vitamin C: 17.6mg | Calcium: 51mg | Iron: 4.4mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!