




5 from 2 votes

Moroccan Cauliflower Salad with Chermoula - Zaalouk de Chou-Fleur

Zaalouk or M'derbel of cauliflower is one of the many Moroccan salads I've enjoyed since childhood.The recipe is versatile as you can serve it finely or coarsely mashed or in the form of small florets smothered in a chermoula. You may spice it up to your liking. Allow a little time for making the chermoula if you don't already have some on hand. The recipe link is in the list of ingredients.Serve it cold or at room temperature as a salad or side dish to a light meal.

Prep Time10 minutes minsCook Time25 minutes minsTotal Time35 minutes mins

Course: Salad, Side DishCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 96kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients1 lb cauliflower florets1/4  cup chermoula paste (spicy red version)1 tbsp tomato paste or sweet paprika 2 tbsp olive oil1/4 tsp ground cumin1/2 tsp  mild harissa paste or to taste2 to 3 tbsp  lemon juice or white vinegarFor serving and garnishing1 tsp olive oilpreserved lemon rinds, cut in thin wedges or small squarespurple or black olivesparsley leaves, choppedUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsWash the cauliflower florets and discard the central stem. Boil in slightly salted water (or sprinkle it with salt and steam) until almost tender. (Use a tip of a knife to check the texture.)Drain and set aside to cool for a few minutes until safe to handle.Use a vegetable masher or fork to coarsely break up the cauliflower. (You can also do this after adding the cauliflower to the pan in step 5.)Heat the oil in a deep skillet. Add the chermoula, the tomato paste, and the rest of the seasoning except for the lemon or vinegar. Stir and cook the mixture for few seconds.Add the cauliflower (break it up if you didn't already do so). Keep stirring, folding and blending the mix until chermoula is fully incorporated and all the liquid has evaporated. It usually takes about 5 minutes.Remove the pan from the heat and allow the salad to cool. Stir in the lemon juice or vinegar and drizzle with olive oil. Taste and correct the seasoning. Some like to mix in more harissa or have it seriously lemony. It's up to you.Garnish and serve the cauliflower zaalook or mderbel as a dip or a spread.This salad keeps well in the fridge for up to a week. It's ideally served at room temperature but can be served cold.

Calories: 96kcal | Carbohydrates: 5g | Protein: 2g | Fat: 7g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Sodium: 157mg | Potassium: 306mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 1g | Vitamin A: 540IU | Vitamin C: 44.6mg | Calcium: 25mg | Iron: 1mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!