




5 from 3 votes

Moroccan Chicken or Quails with Pears

This classic Moroccan chicken or quails dish dates back centuries and offers a delightful marriage of sweet and savory. Pears can be replaced with apples for an equally good outcome. You can use a tagine or a regular pot, but make sure you serve a fairly reduced sauce. Instead of chicken you can use tender cuts of beef or lamb (such as leg of lamb). You will just need to adjust the cooking time to serve the meat tender and falling off the bone.This dish falls under the mqalli method of cooking. A good mqalli has a thick onion sauce which requires patience. If you cut back on the oils you may not reach this texture. The recipe has already been written to use the minimum oil possible to achieve an acceptable result.If you can cook it over a brazier you will be rewarded with the most exquisite taste.

Prep Time15 minutes minsCook Time1 hour hr 30 minutes minsMarinating2 hours hrsTotal Time3 hours hrs 45 minutes mins

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 4 servings
Calories: 629kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
IngredientsChicken Mqalli 2.2 lbs chicken or quail, cleaned and brined, skinned1 1/2 medium-size yellow onions,  chopped1 1/2 tbsp ground ginger 1 tsp ground turmeric1/2 tsp white and black pepper 1 tsp salt, to taste1 stick cinnamon1 pinch saffron threads1 small bouquet of cilantro and parsley1 tsp smen (cured and aged butter)2 tbsp  olive oil2 tbsp vegetable oilPear Topping 1 1/2 lbs pears, fairly sweet and slightly firm1 tbsp lemon juice2 tbsp sugar or honey1 cup chicken sauce, from the step above1 tsp ground cinnamon1 tbsp orange blossom water, optional2 oz butterGarnishAlmonds (fried and coarsely chopped) or toasted sesame seedsUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsAhead of TimeSoak the saffron threads in a couple tablespoons of hot water. Set aside for 5 minutes. Add the rest of the spices to form a paste. Take the chicken and massage it with this mix. Make sure you go inside the cavities and all the meat. If you plan to keep the skin on, insert your fingers between it and the meat to massage it all with the spice mix. Cover and marinate in the fridge for a couple of hours or overnight.Make the Mqalli of ChickenPlace the cooking pot or tagine over medium heat. Add about 1/4 cup of water,  the chopped onions, the bouquet of cilantro. and the marinated chicken (whole or cut into 4 or 6 pieces).Let simmer for about 10 minutes while stirring at least twice. Add the oil and smen along with water some water. (A tagine does not need as much water as a pot where you have to cover at least 3/4 of the bird.) Cover and carry on simmering until the bird is cooked through.Remove the chicken, cover with foil, and set aside. (Do not discard any juices that run out onto the plate.)  Also remove, strain and reserve about 1 cup of the cooking liquid.  Discard the bouquet of herbs ( I never do that but some do). Discard the cinnamon stick as well.Keep cooking and stirring the remaining liquids in the pot until you get a sort of thick and dark onion paste. It might take about 20 minutes to get to this stage. This is old-style slow cooking. Handling the FruitPeel the pears and core them. Brush with lemon juice. You may need to make a cross from the belly side of the halved pears in case you have large ones.Over medium heat, poach the pears in the cup of strained chicken broth and 1/4 cup of water (if needed). It should take 7 to 10 minutes. Turn them delicately a couple of times until nearly cooked. They should still be firm. Hold warm until the next step. In a saucepan, melt the butter with sugar. Add the cinnamon. Add the poached pears. Turn them delicately every 2 minutes so they slightly caramelize from all sides without burning any edges. Add the orange blossom water a minute before you knock off the heat.The caramelized pears should be tender but firm enough to hold their shape. They should be well infused with syrup.To ServeHeat the chicken and the onion sauce.Arrange the chicken on your serving platter and cover with the onion sauce.Place the pears on top and finish with a sprinkle of fried ground almonds or sesame seeds.A Healthier VersionOnce the chicken is nearly cooked, place the pears on top. Baste them every five minutes.  Ideally their rounded side should be slightly dipped in the broth. Simmer until they're cooked through but still holding shape. Dwarf pears will be perfect for this and you can even core them but you don't have to halve them.When everything is cooked, drizzle about 1 tablespoon of honey over.Follow the same serving instructions as described above. Sprinkle with ground cinnamon along with the sesame seeds or almonds.
Notes
Another traditional way to prepare this type of dish is to cook the meat or chicken and set it aside, covered. Then we add the onions to the pot and cook them separately until the sauce thickens. In this recipe, I've cut short the cooking time by stewing the onions along with the bird and then reducing the sauce.
You may cook this with lamb as well.
You follow the same recipe to make chicken and apple stew or tagine.

 

Calories: 629kcal | Carbohydrates: 39g | Protein: 23g | Fat: 43g | Saturated Fat: 19g | Cholesterol: 120mg | Sodium: 771mg | Potassium: 523mg | Fiber: 7g | Sugar: 24g | Vitamin A: 600IU | Vitamin C: 13.7mg | Calcium: 57mg | Iron: 2.2mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!