




5 from 8 votes

Moroccan Beet Salad with Vinaigrette

This easy, delicious and healthy Moroccan beetroot salad is a favorite in many homes. Fresh beets are boiled, steamed or roasted then tossed in a light vinaigrette. Allow time for marinating for best flavor.

Prep Time15 minutes minsCook Time45 minutes minsMarinating1 hour hrTotal Time2 hours hrs

Course: SaladCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 4 servings
Calories: 113kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients1 lb. fresh beets2 tablespoons red onion, finely chopped or slivered (optional)1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley chopped (optional)2 tablespoons  olive oil or vegetable oil1 tablespoon  lemon juice or vinegar (or more to taste)saltpepperUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsWash and Prep the BeetsTrim the tops off the beets, leaving short pieces of stem. Wash thoroughly under running water, scrubbing with a stiff brush to remove any dirt. Rinse and drain. If the beets aren't uniform in size, cut the larger beets into equal-sized pieces to match the smaller beets. Roast or steam the beets as directed below.To Roast the BeetsPreheat your oven to  425° F (220° C).Line a baking sheet or pan with a large piece of aluminum foil. Add the beets and cover with another piece of foil, crimping the edges together to tightly seal the beets within the foil.Place in the oven and roast until the beets are tender, about 30 minutes for smaller beets and longer for large. Test by piercing a beet with fork or sharp knife (you can do this directly through the foil); it should slide easily to the middle of the beet.Remove the beets from the oven and allow to cool until you can handle them. While the beets are still very warm, peel them by sliding the skins off. You can do this under running water. Rinse and drain.To Steam the BeetsPlace the beets in a steamer basket set over a pot of simmering water. Cover and cook for about 30 minutes, until the beets are tender enough to easily pierce to the middle with a sharp knife.Allow the beets to cool until you can handle them. Under running water, slide the skins off the warm beets. Rinse and drain.Make the Beet SaladSlice or chop the beets (I like to dice them) and place in a large bowl. Add the onions, parsley, oil and lemon juice or vinegar. Season to taste with salt and pepper and stir to combine well. If time allows, cover and marinate in the fridge for 1 hour.Before serving, stir and taste for seasoning, adding  a little more lemon juice, salt or pepper as desired.
Notes
The roasting temperature and cooking time is only a guideline. There's no problem with cooking the beets alongside other foods at higher or lower temperatures; just allow extra cooking time for lower temps and watch the beets carefully at higher ones.
No matter the cooking method, peel the beets while very warm or hot; the skins should easily slide off. Doing this under running water can be helpful.
To boil beets: Place whole beets in a pot of salted water and bring to a boil. Cook until tender, 30 minutes or longer, removing smaller beets before larger. Drain, peel, and proceed with the recipe.
Sometimes Moroccan Beet Salad is served with a pinch of cinnamon and sugar added. I prefer it without those additions.


Calories: 113kcal | Carbohydrates: 11g | Protein: 1g | Fat: 7g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Sodium: 89mg | Potassium: 368mg | Fiber: 3g | Sugar: 7g | Vitamin A: 120IU | Vitamin C: 8.7mg | Calcium: 18mg | Iron: 1mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!