




5 from 1 vote

Harissa Paste with Dried Red Chili Peppers

Harissa paste made from dried cayenne peppers is the hottest form of harissa paste. Although easy to make and to adapt to your liking with regard to spices and types of chili peppers, it will be so hot as to make you sneeze. The heat from the chili embalms the air and you will feel it all the way down your throat. You might need to open the windows while sauteing. The good news is that you can omit this step but make sure you thoroughly pat dry the chilis before grinding them.

Prep Time10 minutes minsCook Time15 minutes minsRehydration1 hour hrTotal Time1 hour hr 25 minutes mins

Course: Spices and CondimentsCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 32 tablespoons (1 lb. total)
Calories: 45kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients10 oz dried red chili peppers2  heads of garlic cloves, peeled1 tbsp salt1/4 cup olive oil1 tbsp cumin seeds, optional1 tbsp caraway seeds, optional1 tbsp paprika, optionalUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsIt is suggested to wear plastic or latex gloves to handle the chili. Run the knife through the top end of each dried chili. Shake them head down and scrape out seeds. Discard them and leave the peppers to soak in hot water for 30 to 60 minutes. Drain and grind the chilis in a food processor or meat grinder (or mortar and pestle). Add salt, oil and any other spice used. OPTIONAL: Transfer the mix to a frying pan and saute for a few minutes over medium heat until it looks like a thick dark paste. Keep stirring. It is a delicate step as the heat will get to your nose and throat and there will be a lot of sneezing.Transfer the harissa to jars and top it with oil. Store in a dark place. Although you can do this in a cupboard, it is better to keep the harissa in the fridge, where it will stay for 2 to 4 weeks, or in the freezer for longer.
Notes
This harissa is usually flavored with caraway seeds, coriander seeds and/or cumin while garlic and preserved lemons can be omitted.

 

Serving: 1tbsp (14 g) | Calories: 45kcal | Carbohydrates: 6g | Protein: 1g | Fat: 2g | Sodium: 226mg | Potassium: 176mg | Fiber: 2g | Sugar: 3g | Vitamin A: 2455IU | Vitamin C: 2.9mg | Calcium: 8mg | Iron: 0.8mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!