




5 from 2 votes

Moroccan Diced Vegetable Soup - Chorba Fassia

Chorba Fassia is equivalent to an Italian minestrone soup except that it's richer in flavors and has a wonderful broth, thanks to the addition of giblets or bones. It's perfect one-pot meal for winter nights.For a vegetarian option, you can use a vegetable stock and omit all meat elements. Whichever way you go, make sure you braise the vegetables on low heat, covered, before topping with any liquid.

Prep Time20 minutes minsCook Time50 minutes minsTotal Time1 hour hr 10 minutes mins

Course: SoupCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 6 servings
Calories: 228kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients1 cup cubed lamb, beef or chicken (cut less than 1" thick, see notes)1 tbsp  olive oil1  medium-size onion, finely chopped2 medium-size carrots, peeled and finally diced2 tbsp tomato paste (or 2 grated pulpy tomatoes, seeds and skin discarded)1 celery stalk, finely diced (optional)1 small turnip,  finely diced2 small courgettes (or 1 Italian courgette), finely diced2 medium-size potatoes, peeled and diced 1 cup sliced leeks,  (optional)3 tbsp finely chopped parsley and coriander1/2 tsp ground turmeric1/2 tsp ground black pepper1/2 tsp smen (or ghee or blue cheese, see notes)1  cup  broken vermicelli (or orzo or small macaroni)salt to taste2 qt water  (or ready made stock)US Customary - Metric
InstructionsPlace a deep pot over medium-low heat. Add the oil and smen then the meat and/or the bones, onions, vegetables, tomatoes or tomato paste, salt and turmeric. Stir to combine. Cover and braise, stirring every few minutes to allow the vegetables to render their liquid and intensify in flavor. This makes the base for the soup.Once you see that the liquid has reduced, add the stock or water and simmer for 30 minutes. (At this point you can interrupt the cooking if necessary as it's best to wait to nearly serving time to continue to the next step.)Shortly before serving, top the soup with more water and bring to a simmer. Add the broken vermicelli or any small pasta you prefer. Stir and continue cooking for a few minutes.Add the herbs and the black pepper. Stir and continue simmering until the pasta is just about cooked (al dente). The pasta will absorb water quickly and will continue to absorb liquid later on. So to keep the chorba adequately soupy, adjust water accordingly and correct the seasoning for later serving.If you are making a batch with potential leftover for the coming days, add the vermicelli to the quantity of soup you are planning to have the same day and leave the rest without pasta. You can still do the same the next day with your remaining soup.Thin it as you go and according to your liking. I like a thick soup and my mother prefers much more liquid. Adjust seasoning as necessary.
Notes
Smen is a traditional clarified cured and preserved butter, a bit like Indian ghee but with more flavor. Ideally, a farm butter is used. It's brought to a boiling point on a low heat, then skimmed and strained. It is kept in a clay jar called a khabia and it is salted (sometimes flavored with thyme and other herbs from the mountains). It needs time to age to develop its strong and cheesy taste. The older the smen, the stronger and better.
You may replace smen by a small piece of blue cheese, mostly the white creamy part. The same tip can be used for couscous and any other recipe calling for smen. Otherwise, a good fragrant olive oil will do the trick as well.
You could use small bones for a fragrant and concentrated bouillon but do adjust the cooking time accordingly.
You can also replace meat with chicken wings and giblets which is another traditional version of this soup.

 

Calories: 228kcal | Carbohydrates: 31g | Protein: 14g | Fat: 5g | Saturated Fat: 1g | Cholesterol: 25mg | Sodium: 133mg | Potassium: 976mg | Fiber: 4g | Sugar: 4g | Vitamin A: 4245IU | Vitamin C: 42.9mg | Calcium: 84mg | Iron: 4.5mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!