




5 from 1 vote

Moroccan Beetroot Juice

Whether to quench thirst on a hot sunny day or just help start the day with a boost, this Moroccan beetroot juice is a family favorite. We like to keep the beetroot juice tradition alive by serving it at most of our family gatherings in Fez.While you can make this juice using prepacked unseasoned beetroots from the supermarket or parboil/steam them (wait for them to cool), it is a must to use freshly squeezed orange juice and pure orange blossom water, never an imitation or extract.

Prep Time10 minutes minsCook Time20 minutes minsChilling Time2 hours hrsTotal Time2 hours hrs 30 minutes mins

Course: DrinksCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 2 servings
Calories: 54kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients1 red beetroot, medium size washed and cut in 41/2 cup water, chilled1/2 cup orange juice, freshly squeezed1 1/2 tsp white vinegar1 tsp orange blossom water1 tsp sugar or to tasteUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsPreppingWash the beetroot thoroughly by scrubbing it with a kitchen brush. Peel off the upper ring which tend to have some dirt in it and leave the rest of the skin.Parboil or steam the beet for about 20 min or until a knife can cut through without effort.Transfer the beet to a bowl and wait for it to cool down. Rub it with your fingers to peel it; you will see that the skin comes off easily. Let cool completely before using it.Squeeze orange or clementine juice. Juicing and StoringProcess all the ingredients in a blender for a minute, or until the juice looks smooth. Chill for at least a couple of hours before serving.
Notes
As with all Moroccan recipes, always use pure orange blossom water and never the extract. 
It is also important to use freshly squeezed orange or clementine juice (whichever, or a mix) for any Moroccan recipe calling for orange juice.
A medium-size beetroot is about 4.5 oz/ 125 gr and to this, we usually add 1 to 1 1/2 cups of liquid to make a standard beetroot juice. It is not supposed to be served thick, so as it sits and chills, I thin it with more liquid.
You can use 2/3 orange juice to 1/3 water or 50-50, it does not really matter.
Even if you are against the addition of sugar, I find a teaspoon of it makes it taste better. You could use thin honey as a substitute.
During my trips, I've come across some disturbingly sweet beetroot and some excessively sweet oranges; if you have these varieties in hand, you might get away with the omission of sugar.
Do not omit the vinegar, as it really does make a difference without leaving a taste.

 

Calories: 54kcal | Carbohydrates: 12g | Protein: 1g | Sodium: 35mg | Potassium: 257mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 10g | Vitamin A: 125IU | Vitamin C: 33mg | Calcium: 13mg | Iron: 0.5mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!