




5 from 3 votes

Moroccan Sardine Balls in Tomato Sauce

An authentic Moroccan recipe for fish meatballs poached in a zesty homemade tomato sauce. This classic dish is popular throughout Morocco, but more so in coastal areas where fish is in abundance. Use fillets of sardines, whiting, or other firm fish.Traditionally the fish balls are shaped quite tiny, about the size of marbles or cherries, and Moroccan bread (khobz) is used in place of utensils to scoop up the fish balls and sauce Serve the sardine balls as a main dish or side to other fish and seafood. 

Prep Time40 minutes minsCook Time1 hour hrTotal Time1 hour hr 40 minutes mins

Course: Main Course, Side DishCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 4 servings
Calories: 403kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Equipmenttaginedeep skilletmixing bowlcutting boardFood processor
IngredientsFor the Tomato Sauce3.3 lbs fresh, ripe tomatoes¼ cup olive oil or more to taste1 small onion finely chopped1 small green pepper finely chopped6 cloves garlic or more to taste2 tbsp finely chopped parsley2 tbsp finely chopped cilantro1.5 tsp cumin1.5 tsp paprika1 tsp salt or to taste½ tsp pepper or to taste1 or 2 bay leavescayenne to taste (optional)whole chili peppers to taste (optional)For the Fish Balls1.1 lb. boneless fish fillets preferably sardine or whiting2 tbsp finely chopped parsley2 tbsp finely chopped cilantro1 tsp cumin1 tsp paprika1 tsp ginger¾ tsp salt½ tsp pepper½ tsp turmeric1 or 2 cloves garlic pressed or gratedUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsMake the Tomato SaucePeel, seed, and finely chop the tomatoes. Set aside.Heat the olive oil in the base of a tagine or deep skillet over medium heat. (See notes if using a clay or ceramic tagine.)Add the chopped onion and green pepper and saute until tender, about 5 to 10 minutes.Add the garlic and cook until fragrant, 1 to 2 minutes. Do not allow the garlic to burn. Add the tomatoes, parsley, cilantro, spices, and cayenne or chili pepper. Bring to a simmer and cook, covered, stirring occasionally, for about 30 minutes, or until the tomatoes break down and a rich sauce has formed.When the sauce is done, taste and adjust seasoning. If desired, make it smoother by mashing the tomatoes or using an immersion blender sparingly. You can add a few tablespoons of water at this point if you feel the sauce is too thick.Make the Fish BallsWhile the tomato sauce is cooking, prepare the fish balls.Place the boneless fish fillets in a food processor along with the garlic, parsley, cilantro, and spices. Pulse several times until the fish is finely minced and the seasoning is evenly distributed throughout the mixture.Set out a small bowl of water and wet your hands. Take small portions of the fish mixture and shape tiny meatballs the size of marbles or cherries. Add the fish balls to the tomato sauce and bring it back to a simmer. Cover and cook for 10 to 15 minutes, stirring gently once or twice, until the fish balls are cooked through.Remove the pan or tagine from the heat. Serve the fish balls directly from the tagine or pan with Moroccan bread on the side.
Notes
I use a serrated peeler to peel tomatoes, but if you find that too tedious then cover the tomatoes with boiling water for a few minutes; drain and the skins will slip right off. 
Instead of peeling and chopping the tomatoes, some cooks prefer to grate them. This works best with very ripe tomatoes. Cut the tomatoes in half crosswise, remove the seeds, then finely grate the flesh to a pulp with a box grater. 
If cooking in a clay or ceramic tagine on a stove other than gas, a diffuser is a must. That's because the bottom of a clay tagine shouldn't come into direct contact with its heat source.
And, if cooking with a clay or ceramic tagine, be sure to cook with no more than medium heat because too high of heat will crack a tagine. Be patient while waiting for things to come to a simmer.


Calories: 403kcal | Carbohydrates: 22g | Protein: 24g | Fat: 27g | Saturated Fat: 2g | Cholesterol: 43mg | Sodium: 1045mg | Potassium: 1310mg | Fiber: 6g | Sugar: 11g | Vitamin A: 4428IU | Vitamin C: 75mg | Calcium: 388mg | Iron: 4mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!