




4.79 from 64 votes

Moroccan Meatball Tagine Recipe with Tomato Sauce Recipe - Kefta Mkaoura

A well-loved classic Moroccan recipe for seasoned meatballs in zesty tomato sauce. The meatballs are traditionally shaped quite small and many Moroccans like to poach eggs in the sauce just before serving.Serve with crusty bread for dipping into the sauce and scooping up meatballs by hand.

Prep Time25 minutes minsCook Time45 minutes minsTotal Time1 hour hr 10 minutes mins

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 4 servings
Calories: 560kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Equipmenttaginedeep skilletserrated tomato peelergrater
IngredientsFor the Meatballs1 lb. ground beef or lamb (or mix of the two)1 small onion, finely chopped or grated3 tbsp chopped fresh parsley3 tbsp chopped fresh cilantro1 tsp paprika1 tsp cumin1 tsp  salt1/4 tsp black pepper1/4 tsp turmeric (optional)1/4 tsp  ground cinnamon (optional)For the Tomato Sauce2 lbs ripe tomatoes1/4 cup olive oil or vegetable oil1 medium onion, finely chopped1 small green bell pepper, finely chopped4 cloves garlic, pressed or finely chopped1.5 tsp paprika1.5 tsp cumin1.5 tsp salt (or to taste)1/4 tsp black pepper (or to taste)1/8 tsp cayenne pepper (optional) OR2 chili peppers (optional)1 bay leaf2 tbsp finely chopped parsley2 tbsp finely chopped cilantroFor Garnish (Optional)4 eggs (free range or beldi eggs are preferred)green pitted olives (to taste)fresh parsley or cilantro sprigsUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsMake the MeatballsCombine the ground meat with the onion, herbs and spices. Use your hands to knead the mixture for a minute or two until the seasoning is evenly distributed.Take small portions of the mixture and shape into petite, cocktail-sized meatballs. I tend to make mine the size of cherries but you can make them as small as marbles or, if short on time, as large as 1 1/4 inches (3 cm) in diameter. Cover and set aside. Make the Tomato SaucePeel, seed and chop the tomatoes. Set aside. (Or, if the tomatoes are very soft, cut them in half crosswise, remove the seeds, and then grate the flesh to a pulp; discard the skin.) Place a skillet or the base of a medium- to large-sized tagine over medium-low heat. When hot, add the oil, onion and green pepper. Saute for several minutes.Add the garlic and saute for another minute or two, until fragrant. Be careful not to burn the garlic.Add the chopped or grated tomatoes, herbs and spices. Stir to combine. Allow the tomatoes to come to a simmer then cover and cook for about 15 to 30 minutes, until the tomatoes soften and a sauce begins to form.Use the back of a spoon to crush the tomatoes and add the chili peppers, if using. Cover and continue cooking for another 15 to 30 minutes, until a rich tomato sauce forms. Stir occasionally, adding a little water if necessary to smooth out the sauce.When the consistency of the sauce is to your liking, taste and adjust seasoning. Add the meatballs. Cover and continue simmering for another 10 to 15 minutes, or until the meatballs are just cooked through. The meatball tagine can be served now; or continue to the next steps to add olives and/or eggs.Add Olives and/or Eggs (Optional)If adding olives, do so now, allowing time for them to heat through before serving.  If garnishing the tagine with eggs, carefully add them over the meatballs, taking care not to break the yolks. Cover and continue simmering the tagine just until the whites are firm and the yolk is beginning to set.Garnish with fresh parsley or cilantro and serve directly from the tagine or skillet. 
Notes
Cooking time for the tomato sauce can vary greatly depending on ripeness and juiciness of the tomatoes, as well as your choice of cooking vessels. I find that peeled and chopped tomatoes reduce to a sauce faster in a tagine or stainless steel skillet as opposed to non-stick pan.
When cooking in a traditional clay or ceramic tagine over any heat source other than gas, be sure to use a diffuser. If cooking over gas without a diffuser, be sure the flames don't touch the bottom of the tagine.
Take care to avoid overcooking the meatballs or they will become tough. (Or, if you prefer a softer texture overall to your meatballs, you can deviate from Moroccan tradition and add a whole egg and 1/3 cup of breadcrumbs to the ground meat when seasoning your kefta mixture.)
If planning to add the optional olives at the end of cooking, you may want to reduce the salt when seasoning the tomato sauce.


Calories: 560kcal | Carbohydrates: 19g | Protein: 29g | Fat: 41g | Saturated Fat: 12g | Cholesterol: 244mg | Sodium: 1612mg | Potassium: 1179mg | Fiber: 5g | Sugar: 9g | Vitamin A: 4380IU | Vitamin C: 66.5mg | Calcium: 142mg | Iron: 5.9mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!