




4 from 5 votes

How to Make Moroccan Khlii (Khlea) - Recipe and Tutorial

A Moroccan dried meat called gueddid is the main ingredient in this family recipe for khlii, a confit of preserved meat. The methods for making both gueddid and khlii were essential to keeping meat edible in the days before refrigeration.If you don't have gueddid on hand, you'll need to take time to make some a week or two before getting started with the khlii. You'll also need to obtain suet (kidney fat). After cooking, the fat turns solid as the confit cools, providing the meat with a protective layer that keeps it safe at room temperature. The khlii was traditionally made in large batches and stored in clay urns for up to two years.At one time khlii was enjoyed in a sandwich with a hot glass of mint tea, but now it's regarded as an ingredient of choice to make dishes ranging from morning fried eggs to soups and starters, as well as main dishes and breads.

Prep Time30 minutes minsCook Time4 hours hrsTotal Time4 hours hrs 30 minutes mins

Course: Preserved Meat, Spices and CondimentsCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 149 oz. khlii (approx.)
Calories: 109kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients6 lbs gueddid18 oz beef suet (kidney fat),  ground or chopped finely2.2 to 3.3 quarts water, for cooking4.5 cups extra virgin olive oil, or a mix of olive and vegetable oil2 tbsp salt1 1/2 tbsp cumin seeds, freshly ground2 oz crushed garlic, unpeeled2 oz coriander seeds, freshly groundUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsPreparations Before Cooking You may need to order suet from your butcher ahead of time. (It can be frozen until needed.) Ask him to mince it for you, or plan to grate it or finely chop it at home. Make sure the suet is fresh and free of any membranes or unsavory bits. Wash and pat it dry before grating or chopping. As you handle the gueddid, you will find some sediments; collect them and set them aside. Place the strips of gueddid in a large bowl or basin and cover with fresh water. Leave to soak for a few minutes, then drain and rinse. Use a large, deep, heavy-bottomed cooking pot, preferably with a nonstick coating. (Nonstick is especially helpful if you are making khlii for the first time.)If using a wide pot, you will not need to cut the strips of dried meat; you can add them as they are. If using a narrow pot, cut the strips into lengths about 2.5" (6.5 cm) so they can fit. In either case, make sure your pot is deep as the liquid will splatter.It is important that the area where the khlii will be simmering is free of pets and children. You don't want an accident!Cooking Khlii: The Simmering StageSeason the ground fat with half of the crushed garlic and half each of the ground coriander seeds, ground cumin seeds and salt. Stir.In a large cooking pot (as described above), heat the water to a simmer. Add the seasoned fat and continue cooking over medium heat until the fat has completely melted and starts bubbling. Slowly add in the strips of dried meat, the reserved sediment, and the rest of the seasoning.Alternatively, we can melt the suet in a separate deep pot over low heat. Once it reaches a liquid state, let it cool to lukewarm. Strain it, discarding any debris caught in the sieve. Season the clear liquid fat and add it to the simmering water in the large pot. Cook over medium heat until the liquids start to boil, then add the strips of gueddid.If the meat is not fully covered with liquid, add more hot water and stir. Simmer over very low heat for about 1 hour. Once the meat has become tender and absorbed some of the liquid, add the olive oil.Continue cooking over low heat. Use a large wooden spoon to stir occasionally and delicately, while frequently scrapping the bottom of the pot. Let simmer for several more hours until the water has totally evaporated. The cooking time depends on the age of the animal and therefore its meat, on the type of gueddid (winter or summer ) and also on the thickness of the strips.  Checking the Readiness of KhliiTest the meat when it appears the water has evaporated. If you cut through a strip of meat, it should look dark red; if you try to pry the meat apart with a fork or fingers, it should separate. It should not be soft on the inside. When the water has nearly evaporated, the sediments will start sticking to the bottom of the pot. This is why you should scrape the bottom while stirring--those bits are as precious as the strips of meat themselves.We use something called ftila to perform the ultimate test of whether all water has evaporated from the pot. Dip a 10" long piece of hard paper (or a long cotton wick) into the fat. Give it a few seconds to ensure some liquid has been absorbed. While you are holding it from one end, try to light the dipped end (the "ftila"). If it lights and holds a flame, there is no water left. If not, you still have a way to go.If, for some reason, the meat appears to be ready before the water has totally evaporated, fish it out and save it on the side while you carry on simmering the liquid. (Note that this should not happen if you have cooked the khlii over low heat.)The Final Texture of the Fat LayerOne of the signs of a khlii done right is that the cooled, solidified fat will have a grainy texture. The way to get that texture is to sprinkle the hot liquid fat with cold water. This may seem backwards, but for some reason this step is required; it's beneficial to the fat's conservation as well as the general texture.So, once all water has evaporated, remove the strips of meat from the fat and set them aside. Sprinkle about 1/2 cup of water over the simmering liquid fat. Allow this water to evaporate then turn off the heat.Storing the Layers of KhliiOnly handle the khlii when all elements have cooled to lukewarm but are not yet cold. As mentioned earlier, khlii is the cooked meat which comes with a layer of cooked fat and a layer of sediment (which we hold dear). Follow the process below to make sure you store the layers correctly for future use.Set out clean, dry containers or jars which will be used to store the khlii. When the meat is cool enough to handle, use scissors to cut the strips into smaller pieces--you decide how small, but 1/2" to 2" (2 cm to 5 cm) generally works well--and arrange them in the bottom of the containers. (We cut the khlii now rather than later because it's difficult to fiddle with once set. This way, you are a step ahead of a recipe that directs you to cut khlii. If you buy commercial khlii, the strips of meat will need to be cut at time of use and the task will be a bit messier.) Pour enough liquid fat over the meat to fully cover it. Once cooled, it will solidify, creating a natural barrier against bacteria and other nasties. Leave each jar or containers uncovered until the fat moves from a liquid stage to a solid creamy yellow layer. This is a sign everything has cooled properly and is ready to be sealed. A good plastic container with an airtight seal will do the job. Storing the Agriss (Agriche) SedimentsAgriss is the name of the sediments which have fallen of the khlii; they're the small bits of meat and marinade found at the bottom of the pot in which you cooked the khlii.At the end of the simmering process, after the meat has been removed from the liquid fat, allow time for the sediments to fully settle at the bottom of the cooking pot. Transfer these precious bits into a different jars or containers, along with leftover liquid fat, and set aside to cool, uncovered. Once all the jars and containers appear to have set, cover and seal (if needed). Place in a dark place such as a cupboard for the months to come. Be aware that opened jars should be stored in the fridge or freezer. That said, a khlii properly done should not develop mold or smell bad or become disturbingly rancid at any time provided all instructions for making it and storing it have been followed.
Notes
It is very difficult to come up with serving guidelines for this recipe. Khlii or agriss (agrich) might be used as condiments the enhance the taste of many Moroccan recipes. They may not be primary ingredients.  Although in the old days, a good piece of bread would have been stuffed with strips of khlii (including the fat surrounding it). This sandwich was enjoyed as an indulgent breakfast along with a glass of hot mint tea.
Recipes which use khlii may call for one, two or three layers altogether. Some will use the meat while others the sediments and maybe a bit of fat as well. A recipe for 10 people might include only 2 strips of khlii or 2 tablespoons of fat/agriss; another recipe for 4 servings might use the same quantity because the meat would be a major ingredient, such as in fried eggs with khlii.


Serving: 1oz. | Calories: 109kcal | Carbohydrates: 2g | Protein: 6g | Fat: 8g | Saturated Fat: 3g | Cholesterol: 11mg | Sodium: 474mg | Potassium: 109mg | Sugar: 1g | Calcium: 4mg | Iron: 1mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!