




5 from 2 votes

Express Khlii Recipe - Mqila Rbatia or Mqila Slaouia

Express khlii is known as Mqila Slaouia or Mqila Rbatia, named after the frying pan (mqila) in which it might be cooked as well as after the sister cities of Sale and Rabat, where the dish originated. It's a faster method of preparing the Moroccan preserved meat known as khlii (or khlea). While the traditional method of making khlii involves marinating strips of fresh meat, drying them in the sun for up to a week, and then cooking them in fat and oil, express khlii avoids the drying process. For that reason, it will not keep nearly as long as traditional khlii. This particular recipe for Mqila Rbatia was shared by a friend's mother-in-law, who lives in Rabat. 

Prep Time15 minutes minsCook Time3 hours hrsMarinating12 hours hrsTotal Time15 hours hrs 15 minutes mins

Course: Main Course, Preserved Meat, Spices and CondimentsCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 13 small servings
Calories: 242kcal
Author: Christine Benlafquih | Taste of Maroc
Ingredients2.2 lbs boneless lamb shoulder (or other cut of lamb or beef)7 oz lamb or beef suet,  finely chopped6 large cloves garlic, grated or pressed2 tbsp ground coriander seeds1 tbsp salt1 tsp ground cumin1/2 tsp pepper2/3 cup olive oilUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsCut the meat into long strips about 3/4" (2 cm) thick. Combine the strips of meat with the remaining ingredients. Cover, refrigerate, and leave to marinate overnight.The next day transfer everything, including the oil, to a heavy-bottomed deep skillet or wide pot. Cover and cook the meat over low heat, stirring occasionally, for about 2 1/2 to 3 hours, or until the meat has darkened and dried a bit, all of the fat has completely melted, and liquid from the meat and condensation has evaporated.During the cooking, avoid the temptation to turn up the heat or add water. When the meat has cooked as described above, remove the pan from the heat and leave to cool completely. Transfer the cooled khlii and oil to a plastic or glass container, then cover and refrigerate until needed, up to one month.
Notes
Although other recipes for mqila may call for it, don't be tempted to add water to this version, as slow cooking over low heat avoids its necessity. Vinegar, too, is absent here, although other recipes may include it. 
Properly prepared and stored in the oil and fat, the express khlii will keep up to one month in the fridge. Some recipes claim longer. If in doubt, you can divide it in portions and freeze it.
Use express khlii as you would regular khlii or pulled meat. It works both as a main ingredient and as a condiment. The cooking fat and sediments are also used.
Some recipes for Mqila Slaouia call for large pieces of meat; the final dish does not resemble traditional khlii and is served as a main dish.
Nutritional data is based on a relatively small serving size, which is typically how khlii is enjoyed. 

 
 

Calories: 242kcal | Protein: 16g | Fat: 18g | Saturated Fat: 9g | Cholesterol: 61mg | Sodium: 590mg | Potassium: 226mg | Vitamin A: 15IU | Vitamin C: 1.7mg | Calcium: 15mg | Iron: 1.7mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!