




4.67 from 6 votes

M'rouzia Recipe - Moroccan Confit of Meat with Raisins, Almonds and Honey

Prepared on the occasion of Eid Al Kebir (Eid Al Adha), M'rouzia (alternate spellings: l'Mrouzia, Mrouzia or El Mourouzia) is one of the Moroccan main dishes cooked especially and solely during this festive period. It's a sweet, warm dish defined by its seasoning with Ras el Hanout. Everything in Mrouzia is about time—time to macerate the meat in the spice rub followed by time to slow cook it to a confit on low heat. It's what makes of Mrouzia such a wonderful dish to share with our loved ones and an exotic dining experience to share with others.

Prep Time10 minutes minsCook Time2 hours hrs 50 minutes minsMarinating6 hours hrsTotal Time9 hours hrs

Course: Main CourseCuisine: Moroccan
 Yield: 8 servings
Calories: 486kcal
Author: Nada Kiffa | Taste of Maroc
IngredientsMeat and Marinade2.2 lbs Trimmed lamb with bones (shanks, neck or shoulder),  cut into large pieces1 1/2 tbsp Ras-el-hanout for Mrouzia, preferably freshly ground 1/2 tsp ground pepper, a mix of black and white2 tbsp vegetable or olive oilFor Cooking the Meat4 tbsp olive and vegetable oils, mixed2 tsp ground ginger1 medium-size yellow onion, finely chopped, optional1  tsp smen1 tsp salt1 cinnamon stick 1/2 tsp saffron threadsFor Cooking the Raisins1.1 lbs dark raisins, preferably not too sweet1 tsp Ras el Hanout (Mrouzia blend), freshly ground preferably4 tbsp clear honey, or icing sugar 1 tsp ground cinnamonGarnishing5.2 oz whole blanched almondsUS Customary - Metric
InstructionsMarinate the MeatIn a large container, mix the spices with 1 to 2 tablespoons of oil. Brush the meat with this mixture and massage it well. Cover and refrigerate 6 to 12 hours.Cook the MeatIn a heavy-bottom pot or a dutch oven, add the meat, the onion, the spices, smen and about 1/4 cup of water. Place on medium heat for 10 minutes, stirring a couple of times to rotate the meat, making sure that all sides have been immersed in the liquid at some point. At this stage, we are helping the meat to absorb as much flavor from the spices as possible so these first 10 minutes are important.Slowly add enough water to cover the meat, taking care to pour the water near the sides of the pot and not directly on the meat itself. (You don't want to wash off those spices.) Add the rest of the oil and bring the liquids to a simmer.Cover and continue simmering the meat over medium-low heat for about two hours, or until the meat is tender. During this period, check the pot frequently to see if it needs more liquid and also to ensure that the meat does not stick to the bottom of the pot and burn. Cooking the RaisinsWhile the meat is cooking, place the raisins in a bowl and cover with cold water. Leave them to soak for at least an hour before draining and using.Once the meat is tender, add drained raisins, the teaspoon of ras el hanout, and the honey or sugar. Carry on cooking over medium-low heat while watching the process carefully.The sauce should be reduced and thickened after 20 to 30 minutes or so. No watery liquid should remain.Fry or Roast the AlmondsThe almonds can be prepped for garnish ahead of time or while the meat is cooking. Use one of the methods below.To Oven-Roast: Preheat the oven to 325° F (160° C). Spread the blanched almonds on a baking sheet and roast them for about 25 minutes, tossing them a couple of times. They should be roasted evenly throughout with a nice crunch and a golden color at the end. Adjust the time according to your oven in order to achieve the right texture and color. To Fry: Pour the oil in a small deep pan and wait until it's warm to start frying the almonds. Oil that is too hot will NOT achieve the desired outcome. Give a stir from time to time and fish all the almonds out once they turn lightly golden. Spread them on paper towels or a kitchen towel to git rid of excess oil.Serving and StoringAlways serve mrouzia hot. The meat is first placed in the center of a warm serving plate, topped with the confit of raisins and followed by any drop of that thick dark amber liquid. The dish is garnished with almonds. Some dried rose petals will nicely finish off the presentation.Keep mrouzia in an airtight container in the fridge for a couple of weeks or in the freezer for months. It's advisable to divide the portions in different containers so It's easy to thaw them as needed. I also suggest you keep the almonds separately or fry them as needed. Garnish with them at the last minute.
Notes
The recipe makes 8 servings when following the Moroccan tradition of sampling the dish rather than filling up on it. It will serve 4 when offered as a standalone entree.
When I used to live on my own, I used lamb chops for a faster version which was equally delicious. However, this is a  dish that comes at its best after a slow-cooked process.
I find it easy and practical to cook Mrouzia in a dutch oven or a sealed clay pot in the oven. I set the timer and check at regular intervals. This ensures even cooking and reduce the chances of meat sticking or burning. It gives me full control.
Before the arrival of the modern fridge, Mrouzia was stored in a deep clay urn which was glazed on the interior. A layer of meaty bones would go first, followed by the raisins and then the thick sauce would be added last. The urn was then covered with an oiled paper and sealed with string. Almonds might also be stored inside but some families waited to add them at serving time.
It's worth mentioning that the original recipes always had a high quantity of suet added to the sauce which helped with preserving; the layer of oils and fat would protect the meat once the Mrouzia was cooled in jars.
Traditionally, Mrouzia was shared with all visiting family members and neighbors. The moment somebody showed up at anytime of the day, we would heat some and serve it accompanied with bread. As long as Mrouzia was still available, we had to share it. This dish belonged to the community rather than the family who cooked it. At the same time, we were expecting other Mrouzia to come our way. Consider it a family signature dish attesting of the cook's knowledge in making a decent confit.

 

Calories: 486kcal | Carbohydrates: 75g | Protein: 14g | Fat: 16g | Saturated Fat: 2g | Cholesterol: 36mg | Sodium: 375mg | Potassium: 731mg | Fiber: 5g | Sugar: 22g | Vitamin A: 25IU | Vitamin C: 4.4mg | Calcium: 64mg | Iron: 3.5mg

Nutrition information is provided as a courtesy and is only an estimate obtained from online calculators. Optional ingredients may not be included in the nutritional information.
   Did you try this recipe? We'd love to know!Mention @tasteofmaroc or tag #tasteofmaroc!